https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to give you some of the best tips I can think of for dealing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=2.6s	2.6	 with dog reactivity, promoting positive actions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=5.3s	5.3	 managing a dog's energy and nurturing their emotional health.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=8.9s	8.9	 These three crucial elements synergize for effective reactivity management and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=13.0s	13.0	 our sponsor bark assists you in achieving it all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=15.9s	15.9	 First decide if your dog is a bark box dog or a super chewer box dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=20.0s	20.0	 Super chewer toys range from really firm and hard to something that's still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=24.0s	24.0	 pretty firm. Like I can squeak that, but it's still really tough.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=27.6s	27.6	 Super chewer toys are designed for dogs with exceptional strength.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=30.7s	30.7	 This helps keep their teeth clean right here. These little ridges.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=33.2s	33.2	 That's a really nice toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 They often include puzzle toys that really encourage your dog to think you could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=38.9s	38.9	 put some kibble in there and it would trickle out as your dog plays with it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=41.9s	41.9	 While bark box offers still very robust,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=44.4s	44.4	 but more gentle toys for our spirited yet less fierce dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=48.5s	48.5	 That is a dog toy if I've ever seen one. I love that crinkly sound.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=52.4s	52.4	 There's enough substance where a dog can really bite into it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=55.2s	55.2	 That might be dog toy of the year for me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=56.9s	56.9	 That looks so real popcorn, right? A clump of popcorn. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=61.1s	61.1	 it's like a single popcorn. Look at it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 You always get a couple of bags of really high value treats too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=66.0s	66.0	 Sometimes when you're working with reactive dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=67.9s	67.9	 you want to scatter them like that so they don't get fixated on another dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=71.4s	71.4	 Do you want a free bark box?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=72.8s	72.8	 Cause you can get one when you sign up for a subscription at barkbox.com slash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=76.3s	76.3	 dog training and super chewer.com slash dog training. I'll have links below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=80.3s	80.3	 Reactivity is definitely one of the more challenging things to address in dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=84.1s	84.1	 training. So what do we mean by reactivity?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=86.5s	86.5	 A reactive dog is one that displays an exaggerated response to certain triggers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=90.9s	90.9	 such as other dogs, people, or objects.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=93.2s	93.2	 I have to emphasize that when we're dealing with reactivity,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=96.0s	96.0	 we're dealing with complex animals with very big feelings.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=99.8s	99.8	 I'm going to give you some of the fastest ways I know to achieve success with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=103.5s	103.5	 dog reactivity. First, it's all about mindset.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=107.2s	107.2	 We must go into this with a patient and understanding attitude.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 So for a dog that exhibits leash reactivity,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=112.4s	112.4	 know that it's going to take time to see progress. Next,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=116.0s	116.0	 address the underlying cause.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=118.5s	118.5	 By understanding the underlying cause of your dog's reactivity,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=121.5s	121.5	 you can tailor your approach to effectively address their specific needs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=125.7s	125.7	 Let's say you believe your dog's reactivity is because of a lack of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=128.7s	128.7	 socialization.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=130.0s	130.0	 We would want to create opportunities for controlled positive interactions with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=133.7s	133.7	 other dogs and people to help them feel more comfortable in social situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=138.4s	138.4	 How we do that will vary from dog to dog. Develop a gradual exposure plan.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=142.9s	142.9	 You'll want to create a plan that slowly exposes your dog to their triggers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=146.9s	146.9	 while reinforcing calm behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=148.9s	148.9	 breaking down challenging situations into smaller, more manageable steps,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=152.8s	152.8	 allows the dog to build confidence and resilience over time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=155.8s	155.8	 Create a plan that slowly exposes your dog to their triggers while reinforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=160.7s	160.7	 calm behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=161.5s	161.5	 And you might have to break this down into smaller steps than you currently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=164.2s	164.2	 think. Say your dog goes bananas when they see another dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=167.3s	167.3	 you might want to consider going 50 meters away from a dog park outside of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=171.3s	171.3	 dog park to give your dog some general exposure to help a dog overcome a fear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=175.5s	175.5	 of meeting new people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=176.4s	176.4	 Start by exposing them to one friendly stranger at a time and gradually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=180.5s	180.5	 increase the number of people. If your dog is afraid of a car,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=182.8s	182.8	 start with a plan that involves having the engine completely off,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 gradually progressing to short trips around the block and eventually longer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=189.6s	189.6	 trips. Next assess your dog's current abilities.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=193.7s	193.7	 Really try to understand your dog's triggers and situations that they struggle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 with so that you can effectively learn to manage those reactions. This is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 again, going to help you achieve a tailored specific plan for your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=207.2s	207.2	 If your dog is fearful of other dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=208.9s	208.9	 take note of the distance where they start to show anxiety around other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=213.2s	213.2	 This will help you determine a starting point for your desensitization and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=216.5s	216.5	 counter conditioning plan, which we'll go over in a second. Prioritizing goals,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=220.0s	220.0	 focus on the most pressing issues first or ones that most significantly impact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=224.4s	224.4	 your dog's quality of life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=226.0s	226.0	 So if it's really hard to walk your dog around the neighborhood because they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=228.7s	228.7	 bark at everything that moves,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=230.2s	230.2	 that probably means you need to prioritize significant exercise just before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=233.9s	233.9	 those outings so that your dog has a depleted energy source and is more likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=238.4s	238.4	 to focus on you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=239.5s	239.5	 Proper fetch training becomes a priority in that situation so that you have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=244.4s	244.4	 means to get your dog's energy out on your terms and schedule. Next,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=248.1s	248.1	 be prepared for setbacks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 Understand that progress is not always linear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=252.2s	252.2	 Accepting that setbacks are a natural part of the process will help you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=255.8s	255.8	 stay extra resilient and committed to your dog's progress. For example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=260.1s	260.1	 if you've got a dog with separation anxiety,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=261.9s	261.9	 you would expect that there might be days where they struggle more than others.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=265.6s	265.6	 If there's been a lot of rain lately and you weren't able to exercise them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=268.6s	268.6	 well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=269.1s	269.1	 then you understand that those days might be harder than days when you do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 exercise them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=273.1s	273.1	 Understand that some dogs may continue to feel more mild forms of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=277.6s	277.6	 anxiety or fear, but significant improvement is extremely valuable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=281.5s	281.5	 So concentrate on the progress that your dog is making rather than absolute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=285.8s	285.8	 perfection. If your dog used to bark like crazy when they saw another dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=289.4s	289.4	 but now just lets out a little woof and then promptly pays attention to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=293.5s	293.5	 again, celebrate that progress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=295.0s	295.0	 Or if your dog was inconsolable when someone they didn't know walked into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=298.6s	298.6	 house, but now they might still be a little nervous,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=301.2s	301.2	 but eventually will settle down and meet a new person. That's progress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=306.0s	306.0	 Next, acknowledge your personal limitations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=308.4s	308.4	 Recognize your own constraints in terms of time, resources,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=311.7s	311.7	 and expertise and adjust your expectations as needed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=315.8s	315.8	 For example, if you have limited time due to family or work obligations,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=320.0s	320.0	 consider enlisting the help of a partner or a family member and just make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=323.7s	323.7	 that you're really on the same page and have the same goals and are willing to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=327.3s	327.3	 be very consistent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=328.8s	328.8	 My next tip is to look for opportunities to reinforce calm behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=332.8s	332.8	 There's a lot of power in this one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=334.2s	334.2	 Reinforcing dogs for remaining calm and mildly challenging situations can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=339.3s	339.3	 a long way towards helping you make progress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=341.8s	341.8	 You're doing great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 And see, there's a dog barking. I'm going to keep moving.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=348.3s	348.3	 No need to stop because we know he's sensitive to dogs and that's really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=352.6s	352.6	 And consider using a variety of things to reinforce that calm behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=356.5s	356.5	 Sometimes it can be play. Sometimes it can be food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=359.5s	359.5	 Sometimes it can be further access to the environment or other things,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=363.1s	363.1	 whatever your dog values.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=364.3s	364.3	 Let's take the example of a dog who feels anxious when riding in a car.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 You might want to consider giving them something like a really good dog chew or a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=372.9s	372.9	 treat dispensing toy that can keep them occupied while you drive around the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=377.0s	377.0	 block or take short rides,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=378.2s	378.2	 or just let them enjoy the chew in a parked car,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=382.0s	382.0	 depending on where they are in their training. Next,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=384.2s	384.2	 make sure you understand counter conditioning,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=385.9s	385.9	 which is a really simple concept.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=387.6s	387.6	 It's where we actually go through the effort to change our dog's emotional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=391.9s	391.9	 response to something that might cause them anxiety.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=395.7s	395.7	 We can actually do that. For example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=397.6s	397.6	 if you're out on a walk and you see a dog way in the distance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=400.4s	400.4	 make sure you bring like extra high value treats for those situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=404.1s	404.1	 It is completely normal for dogs not to take even really good food if they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=408.9s	408.9	 over threshold or overwhelmed by a situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=412.6s	412.6	 That's why we have a strong emphasis on distance. And over time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=416.2s	416.2	 we modify those distances accordingly as our dog's emotional state varies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=420.9s	420.9	 Another great example of counter conditioning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=422.4s	422.4	 You've seen me do it on my channel several times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=424.6s	424.6	 Let's take the vacuum cleaner before you even turn the vacuum cleaner on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=428.2s	428.2	 You might touch it, give your dog an amazing treat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=431.0s	431.0	 and then work up to being able to turn it on for just a half second.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=433.8s	433.8	 This is all done in one training session a lot of the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=436.8s	436.8	 And then gradually being able to work your way up to vacuuming with the thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=440.8s	440.8	 fully on as you reinforce your dog and move slowly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=444.2s	444.2	 So counter conditioning like this is really magical.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=446.6s	446.6	 Just be sure to work at your dog's pace. That really is the key.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=449.5s	449.5	 Counter conditioning goes hand in hand with desensitization,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=452.4s	452.4	 which is my next tip.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=453.9s	453.9	 That's where we gradually increase the intensity or the duration of exposure,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=458.4s	458.4	 of something that's been challenging for them in the past,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=461.2s	461.2	 where we really have a strong emphasis on reinforcing those calm moments.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=465.5s	465.5	 You can see throughout this process,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=467.3s	467.3	 how we're balancing the environment with our dog by controlling your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=471.2s	471.2	 surroundings. You can control how your dog behaves,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=474.4s	474.4	 what they do and how they feel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=476.5s	476.5	 And you can do it in a virtually side effect free manner.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=480.6s	480.6	 If you consistently find your dog becoming overwhelmed and acting out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=484.3s	484.3	 that means you've got work to do in practicing in very specific environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=488.4s	488.4	 that you seek out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=489.6s	489.6	 It's not reasonable to just expect dogs to be good because you have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=493.4s	493.4	 expectation that they should.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=495.0s	495.0	 Dogs are complex animals that need to understand this world and make sense of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=499.1s	499.1	 it. An example of desensitizing your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=501.5s	501.5	 Let's say your dog was scared of young children.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=504.6s	504.6	 You might start by giving them some general exposure to older children who
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=508.4s	508.4	 don't behave as erratically and giving your dog space. And of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=511.9s	511.9	 advocating for your dog to make sure they don't become overwhelmed during any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=515.5s	515.5	 interactions with kids.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=517.0s	517.0	 But the more exposure your dog gets and the more you go out of your way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=520.1s	520.1	 prevent any undesirable interactions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=522.7s	522.7	 the more likely it is that your dog's going to become accepting of young
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=525.8s	525.8	 children. Collaborate with qualified experts on your particular issue.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=530.4s	530.4	 Since reactivity can be one of the more challenging things to address,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=534.1s	534.1	 particularly from an emotional welfare standpoint,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=536.9s	536.9	 you might want to consider reaching out to a dog behavior specialist.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=540.2s	540.2	 These are trainers who typically have additional certifications in these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=544.9s	544.9	 very specific areas.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=546.7s	546.7	 And these days you have your choice of so many amazing people you can work with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=551.0s	551.0	 virtually no matter where you are in the world. That's pretty awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=554.7s	554.7	 Some dogs may have experienced trauma or abuse in their past and working with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=558.6s	558.6	 someone who's more specialized in these issues can offer you additional support
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=562.6s	562.6	 so that you can have a really particular custom tailored approach for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=566.8s	566.8	 specific dog and their situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=569.5s	569.5	 There is no one size fits all approach in dog training. However,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=572.5s	572.5	 don't take that to mean that aversive dog training methods are sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=576.4s	576.4	 necessary.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=577.0s	577.0	 Many aversive dog training methods have been strongly correlated with creating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=581.1s	581.1	 other undesirable things in our dog's lives.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=583.9s	583.9	 When we use these more intelligent approaches, we're not creating other issues.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=587.9s	587.9	 So it's a very streamlined way to look at resolving reactivity. My next tip,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=592.0s	592.0	 monitor your dog's body language.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=593.8s	593.8	 Understanding their body language is essential for trying to make sense of how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=598.1s	598.1	 they are feeling emotionally so that you can address the root cause of their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=601.9s	601.9	 reactivity. For example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=603.2s	603.2	 if your dog is showing signs of fear such as flattened ears or a tucked tail,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=607.1s	607.1	 or they're licking their lips,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=608.0s	608.0	 or you're seeing more yawning than you would normally see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=610.6s	610.6	 these are all signs that your dog may be feeling uncomfortable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=613.5s	613.5	 This doesn't mean you're doing anything wrong.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=614.9s	614.9	 Just take it as information so that you can gain a better understanding of how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=618.4s	618.4	 your dog might be feeling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=619.7s	619.7	 But some of these body language signals are pretty subtle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=622.5s	622.5	 So you might be overlooking some.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=624.0s	624.0	 Try to really study your dog and understand how they behave in a variety of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=627.8s	627.8	 contexts.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=628.8s	628.8	 My next bit of advice would be to become a master at managing your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=633.7s	633.7	 surroundings and their environments. By doing this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=635.8s	635.8	 you're reducing the odds of having unintended trigger events that are likely to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=640.3s	640.3	 exacerbate the issue.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=641.7s	641.7	 And the more you effectively manage the environment to keep your dog feeling safe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 and secure, you're actually contributing to their future confidence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=648.4s	648.4	 So think about if you're taking your dog for a walk and there might be a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=651.2s	651.2	 dogs out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=651.8s	651.8	 you might want to take your walks during a less busy time of day or right after a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=655.2s	655.2	 thunderstorm. When there are fewer people out taking less busy routes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=659.1s	659.1	 we'll set your dog up for success and allow you guys to build communication in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=663.5s	663.5	 less stressful state because that's the time to build it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=667.1s	667.1	 When your dog is overly stressed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=669.2s	669.2	 that's not the time to communicate with them and teach them new concepts.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=673.2s	673.2	 We often see this without data dog training techniques, where if a dog reacts,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=676.6s	676.6	 they'll forcefully pop a collar until the dog suppresses that emotion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=681.2s	681.2	 Now we're very likely just increasing your dog's stress level with the thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=685.3s	685.3	 that was already a bit stressful.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=687.4s	687.4	 Even though your dog is learning to suppress the energy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=689.8s	689.8	 we have not addressed the underlying cause and that will be problematic.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=694.6s	694.6	 My next tip is to practice patience and empathy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=697.6s	697.6	 Recognize that your dog might be experiencing fear, anxiety, or stress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=701.7s	701.7	 Being genuinely compassionate and understanding during the training process is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=705.6s	705.6	 going to result in less frustration. As we talked about earlier,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=708.9s	708.9	 progress is not linear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=710.7s	710.7	 That means you have to frequently take steps back and reassess and come up with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=715.1s	715.1	 different plan. Even if your dog has a good day on one day,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=718.2s	718.2	 they might be extra energetic the next day and the same situation might cause
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=722.3s	722.3	 them to react.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=723.1s	723.1	 So it's really important to have strong situational awareness when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=726.8s	726.8	 training a dog. Really this next tip should have been number one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=730.4s	730.4	 Tell me if you guys think this is true,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=732.0s	732.0	 but when you really have a strong bond with a dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=735.4s	735.4	 it becomes so easy to communicate with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=738.8s	738.8	 So trying to bypass the bond and exchange for strict
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=743.2s	743.2	 discipline is not advisable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=745.5s	745.5	 Spend quality time with your dog and engaging environments that are appropriate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=749.0s	749.0	 for them playing games and doing things they enjoy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=751.8s	751.8	 My next tip is to have a strong focus on providing that physical and mental
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=755.8s	755.8	 stimulation to your dog. Very often,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=757.7s	757.7	 the easiest type of reactivity to overcome is reactivity that's related to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=762.6s	762.6	 pent up energy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=764.1s	764.1	 So simply by exercising a dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=765.7s	765.7	 teaching them a fluid game of fetch or some other activity.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=768.8s	768.8	 We know that with people exercise can be amazing for reducing stress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=773.3s	773.3	 And the same is true for our dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=774.8s	774.8	 Don't forget to get a free bark box and super chewer box.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=777.1s	777.1	 I'll have details in the description. If you enjoyed this video, click thumbs up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=780.3s	780.3	 make sure you're subscribed to my channel, follow us on social, TikTok,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=783.4s	783.4	 Instagram, and Facebook. That's what we're most active these days.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ3i6FRyoFs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=2&pp=iAQB&t=786.5s	786.5	 And we'll see you in the next video.
