https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I have a confession. I've run into some issues. Number one, crate training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 And when biscuits and I go out in public, she's way too interested in everything on the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=10.8s	10.8	 and everything she can see and here. Oh, no, come when called. It's broken.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=17.7s	17.7	 And then there's potty training. Potty training. No, I saw it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=23.6s	23.6	 I found pee. Evidence. Are you serious? This is downright bad.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=30.6s	30.6	 I think you're finally feeling what a lot of your subscribers feel when they're like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=33.9s	33.9	 yeah, Zach, but easier said than done. Subscribe and click the bell so you get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=37.5s	37.5	 notified every time we upload a video. The most important things to focus on when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=41.8s	41.8	 struggling with potty training or controlling the environment, giving them more than enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=45.7s	45.7	 potty breaks and of course feeding them on a consistent schedule. This smells amazing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=50.6s	50.6	 Truly, I would not mind if my entire house smelled like this food. It even tastes good too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=55.1s	55.1	 I'll bet you if I ate this, I'd probably be in the best shape of my life. Can we just take lunch?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=59.8s	59.8	 Here we go. And they've got different formulas too. Like this is the beef mash formula.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=64.0s	64.0	 It's got beef, potatoes, eggs, carrots, peas. That was the chicken cuisine. The thing about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=69.3s	69.3	 this food, nom nom, is that it's designed and portioned for your individual dog by an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=73.6s	73.6	 actual veterinary nutritionist. So on their website, you tell them things like your dog's weight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 their age, and a few other things. They send it right to you in a box. Everything is frozen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=83.0s	83.0	 and voila, you've got fresh food for your dog. Honestly, this is the innovation we've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=87.3s	87.3	 waiting for in dog food. This food is half off right now just for our viewers for a two week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=92.3s	92.3	 trial. Use my special link, trinom.com slash Zach. That's going to be in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=97.0s	97.0	 I think we can all agree that I, as a dog trainer, need to do a better job of controlling biscuits
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=101.9s	101.9	 environment. But look, the truth is she's been a little bit hesitant about going in her crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=106.3s	106.3	 and being comfortable there. I mean, a crate can be a wonderful way to keep your dog comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 and safe for times when you can't directly supervise them. But rule number one is that they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=114.4s	114.4	 must love the crate and not feel stressed out while they're in there. They should think of it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=118.6s	118.6	 in the way that we think of our bedrooms. The goal that I have when I'm crate training dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=123.6s	123.6	 is to literally start accumulating seconds, minutes, hours of them being in the crate while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=129.8s	129.8	 in a pleasant frame of mind. The more you accomplish that, the more likely it is that they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=134.5s	134.5	 will probably take to the crate. At least that's been my experience. Right now I'm just rewarding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=139.0s	139.0	 the attentive behavior, the sit, the look at me. Starting any training session with a puppy with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=144.2s	144.2	 something easy is the way to go. Start off by rewarding your dog for something really simple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=148.8s	148.8	 that they know really well, like look at me or sit or something like that. It really helps get them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=153.3s	153.3	 more enthusiastic about working with you when they know the rewards are coming easy. Let's see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=157.6s	157.6	 throwing a treat in there will motivate her to go in the crate on her own. There we go. From this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=164.0s	164.0	 point forward, I'm only going to give her a treat when she's in there holding a sit. Since Biscuits
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=169.3s	169.3	 has been taught to hold her sit stay until she's released, this is a great way to get her comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 existing within that crate for longer and longer periods of time. What happens if I get up and walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=180.0s	180.0	 over here? She come chasing me? Not yet. It looks like she's starting to put two and two together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=185.7s	185.7	 Truly this is pretty incredible for me as a trainer to watch. This is a very young puppy and she's only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=191.1s	191.1	 just learned the concept of staying when I walk away from her. It's natural for dogs to want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=196.4s	196.4	 be close to us, especially puppies. Good girl Biscuits, you're doing great. Okay, still some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=202.9s	202.9	 work to do. I didn't release her from that sit, but I do understand why she came running to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=208.2s	208.2	 But honestly, even though she broke stay to come running to me is still pretty amazing and I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=213.0s	213.0	 that she came running to me. So I'm going to reward it anyway, but I've got to do a better job of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=216.7s	216.7	 letting her know when that sit stay is over moving forward. Let's do an experiment. I think we've made
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=221.4s	221.4	 it clear to Biscuits what we'd like her to do. Let's see if she calculates that going into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=226.2s	226.2	 crate without a cue at all is something that she should do. In theory, I could make a case for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=230.8s	230.8	 rewarding her there because she's thinking about it. This is really powerful because she's having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=235.1s	235.1	 to originate the behavior and it's wonderful not having to tell your dog every single move to make.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=241.1s	241.1	 It shows us how smart they actually are. I like that she's thinking, but I'm going to hold her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=246.0s	246.0	 a higher standard here. I want to see her in a sit while in the crate. Yes. Good girl. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=253.2s	253.2	 wonderful. There's so much going on here, but this is truly a breakthrough moment. Biscuits gets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=259.1s	259.1	 distracted as puppies often do. Notice how far away from the crate both Brie and I are, and she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=265.4s	265.4	 still runs straight back into the crate. So this can't be mistaken for her kind of inadvertently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 running to a person, and that's the more natural thing for puppies to do. But it seems like she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=276.3s	276.3	 really realizing that for her to get what she wants, this particular action is what's going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=281.2s	281.2	 work for her. And all of this is happening without having to tell her to do a thing. All we've done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=286.0s	286.0	 so far is reinforce it when she is doing the right thing. And the reason that I want her doing this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=291.4s	291.4	 without too much instruction is because I want her to feel comfortable with going in and spending
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=295.8s	295.8	 time in the crate on her own terms. And the other dimension of this is that she's learning how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=300.1s	300.1	 brainstorm and really interact with this very human world. She's actually figuring out that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=306.2s	306.2	 needs to go into the crate and that holding a sit stay for a period of time is very likely to get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=313.0s	313.0	 what she wants. And all of this with almost no coaxing on my end at all right now. This is why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=318.4s	318.4	 I as a trainer really lean into positive dog training. I love that I don't have to make her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=323.5s	323.5	 do a thing here. We're succeeding here in making her want to do a thing. Watching her think and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=329.1s	329.1	 brainstorm is just amazing. This is massively deepening our communication right now. I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=335.4s	335.4	 watching her skyrocket on her progress right now because I'm not having to be close to her. Look how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=340.0s	340.0	 far away I am from her right now. Okay, so I'm going to release her there. Good girl. I'll give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=347.2s	347.2	 her a treat. And then I want to see does she anticipate going in the crate and holding a sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=354.4s	354.4	 from way back here now. This would be kind of pushing it for her. I feel like if I were standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=359.2s	359.2	 next to the crate she'd be more likely to go in. And so sometimes being patient and just waiting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=364.3s	364.3	 it out is a good way to go. She's brainstorming. She's like sometimes when I come up to you like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=368.7s	368.7	 this and I sit I get treated or when I'm hanging around you. We're not confusing her or if we are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=373.9s	373.9	 it's temporary. She'll learn soon enough what I want. She's like this was working a moment ago.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=378.6s	378.6	 What is the one thing I'm not doing right? It's not just sit. It's sit from far away. It's sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=384.2s	384.2	 while in a crate. Yes. I will reward that because I didn't want to take a chance on her backing out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=391.9s	391.9	 So she wasn't holding a sit there but she was still on the right track. Yes. There's my sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=397.2s	397.2	 What do we want to call getting in the crate for her? Go to your room. Yes. Good job. I like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=403.8s	403.8	 Ideally that's how I think of a crate. I think of it as a bedroom for a dog. A place for them to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=408.0s	408.0	 their alone time. Sometimes dogs value that just like we do. Now the question becomes can I get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=413.8s	413.8	 her to relax in there? I'm going to throw that in there and so the idea here is that I get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=418.5s	418.5	 comfortable in there for a greater duration on her own. Like she's satisfied because she loves this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=424.2s	424.2	 I'm hoping she's going to lie down at which time I'll close the door. Good. See look at me. She's so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=429.5s	429.5	 easy to read. The turbo tendons have been great. These are actually for bigger dogs normally but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=434.9s	434.9	 she thinks she's a big dog. Earlier on when I would do this she'd be like no you're moving too fast.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=439.4s	439.4	 I'm not interested in chewing this thing or eating this food. Let me out. But now she seems to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=443.7s	443.7	 adjusting quite well. These turbo tendons have been some of my favorite natural chews throughout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=448.7s	448.7	 these series. I like chews that really keep a dog's interest for a long period of time and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=454.2s	454.2	 Pupford makes all kinds of awesome chews like this. So if you're looking for something that virtually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=458.9s	458.9	 every dog is going to be thrilled with these turbo tendons are likely to be a hit. I'll have links in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=463.8s	463.8	 the description. It would be nice if she would chew that and pass out. She's been going all morning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=469.1s	469.1	 Getting your dog to willingly go into a crate right before they're about to fall asleep is golden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=474.2s	474.2	 because it gets you many hours of them being in that crate and that like relaxed frame of mind.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=479.8s	479.8	 I mean think about how you feel when you wake up. You're calm. You don't usually just freak out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=483.2s	483.2	 Right? I don't want to put a dog that isn't mentally and physically satisfied into a crate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=488.3s	488.3	 Particularly this early on in their training. When a dog becomes frustrated while in a crate that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=492.5s	492.5	 doesn't make anyone's life easier. So be mindful of the context in which you're asking your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=497.2s	497.2	 accept the crate as well if you're struggling with this. She has what I would consider a natural
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=502.2s	502.2	 degree of separation anxiety just because puppies tend to be more clingy than older dogs. This is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=508.6s	508.6	 great chance to give her some alone time and show her that the world isn't going to end.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=514.3s	514.3	 Assuming she stays into that chew. Good. She didn't react to the gate. Being calm while I'm here is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=521.2s	521.2	 one thing but let me see if I can go downstairs and see if she remains at ease or if her anxiety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=526.6s	526.6	 level seems to increase. This is working great but now we've got to work on some other significant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=532.0s	532.0	 issues I'm having with biscuits in the real world because training in your living room only goes so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=536.8s	536.8	 far anyway. Right? We had fully intended to be out of Alaska by first snow. It looks like we have failed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=543.5s	543.5	 at that miserably. There's snow up here in the mountains but we think if we go down into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=548.6s	548.6	 city we don't have to deal with the snow. That's just a few minutes away. Wow. Yep. They're everywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=554.9s	554.9	 here. That's a pretty moose. Thank goodness the weather is so much better down here. We're at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=561.1s	561.1	 brand new place. A nice field. There's a good amount of foot traffic and things going on around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=566.3s	566.3	 us but we're kind of off the beaten path. Biscuits has been on fire and I'm sure everything is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=570.9s	570.9	 to go absolutely perfect during this training lesson. Okay it looks like biscuits has lost total
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=577.8s	577.8	 interest in me in favor of... Oh gross. Is that moose poop? Okay assuming we can get biscuits to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=584.8s	584.8	 stop eating moose poop I'm sure everything else will be totally fine today. Okay let me devise a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=590.8s	590.8	 plan. Now in the meantime I'm going to have to restrict her access to the moose poop. Good thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=595.5s	595.5	 I have a leash. I think I'm working too close to the poop. The sentences we have to say in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=600.4s	600.4	 profession. You could see her getting frustrated there and that's something we want to avoid. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=604.9s	604.9	 better mood she's in the better training result she's going to give me. That really is the first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=609.9s	609.9	 law of training your dog. Keep them happy. But the second law of dog training is stop eating moose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=615.8s	615.8	 poop. Now on one hand I could ask her to leave it alone. We have trained leave it with a treat and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=621.2s	621.2	 a couple of other things throughout our training. But here's the thing. I mean teaching a dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=624.8s	624.8	 leave a treat alone at home in your living room that's one thing but that doesn't translate into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=628.9s	628.9	 them understanding how to leave a delicious surprise alone. Bridging the gap between those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=634.8s	634.8	 two different types of leave it that's going to take some work. So rather than focusing on telling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=639.7s	639.7	 her what I don't want her to do leave the moose poop alone I'm going to focus on teaching her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=644.1s	644.1	 do something that she's been doing well with so far. Come when called. That's incompatible with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=648.4s	648.4	 eating moose poop. If she listens to me on that she can't be eating moose poop. Why am I saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=653.0s	653.0	 moose poop so much? Come. Oh no. Come when called. It's broken. She's giving me a tough time here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=663.0s	663.0	 I'm just looking for the slightest acknowledgement of my existence. At which time I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=668.4s	668.4	 encourage her to come to me by hopefully being exciting enough to her. Yes. Come on over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=676.6s	676.6	 Okay it looks like she's remembering how to come to me when I call her. So this is improving.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=681.0s	681.0	 And in instances like this where I do spark her interest I really like to try to go for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=685.5s	685.5	 several successes in a row. Because sometimes their attention span can be very short and if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=690.7s	690.7	 you can squeeze in a lot of successful reps in that time that's only likely to help you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=695.6s	695.6	 She's looking pretty happy. I'm not even calling her at this point. So now she's anticipating and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=700.6s	700.6	 we really like that a lot. Yes. Good. She look like she's having fun to you. I'm having fun.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=707.0s	707.0	 Now we've been able to work with the moose poop all around us and Biscuits is leaving it alone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=711.7s	711.7	 perfectly now. But there's still the other matter of getting her attention around all of the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=717.3s	717.3	 distractions at this park. Things like dogs and people in close proximity to her. Some of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=722.6s	722.6	 rolling down a hill or doing wheelies on their bike. What can I say Biscuits? People are weird.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=728.2s	728.2	 Have another couple of pedestrians here. Here. Yes. Good girl. She's been doing great with food as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=736.6s	736.6	 a reward today. But you know I really like to have the option to use a toy as a currency as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=742.2s	742.2	 I mean toys really have the benefit of bringing out a certain level of enthusiasm in many dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=747.8s	747.8	 at least. But they only work if a dog is interested in playing with that toy or with you at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=752.6s	752.6	 particular moment. Dogs over here kind of approaching but yes. Good. And so here I can say yes and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=760.8s	760.8	 reward can be a little tug with a frisbee or a chase of it. Good. She looked at these people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=767.0s	767.0	 I mean just watch this. Watch her attention become divided as she attempts to reason as to what I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=772.4s	772.4	 want her to do. Because she's been consistently reinforced with me in the past this appears to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=777.7s	777.7	 tipping the scales towards acknowledging me instead of those other dogs. And I like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=782.5s	782.5	 experiment with a variety of toys. A frisbee is a harder sell to some dogs because it doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=787.0s	787.0	 squeak or roll. Good. Go get it. Come. Good girl. Good. Let go. Yes. Really getting the hang of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=798.2s	798.2	 let go. You really have to train a dog one step at a time. It's not about the toy. It's about you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=803.6s	803.6	 You want to be exciting to your dog in whatever way it is that you personally do that. Go get that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=808.8s	808.8	 far one. Her fetch skills are becoming downright sophisticated. Yes. That was the full length of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=817.4s	817.4	 the lead. How about that? Oh no. My worst nightmare. Biscuits. Come on. Not only do we have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=823.8s	823.8	 moose poop everywhere but there are people and dogs and it's all happening at the same time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=829.0s	829.0	 Just kidding. It's a great training opportunity. Here. Yes. See if she likes to run and stop and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=835.3s	835.3	 check things out. Good girl. And there's victories like this that really keep us going and make those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=840.6s	840.6	 small steps worth all of the effort. I mean at the beginning of this lesson I couldn't reliably get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=845.6s	845.6	 her attention on me consistently at all. And so now we're starting to see all that prerequisite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=851.0s	851.0	 come into focus and be applicable in the real world. But just because we got traction today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=856.1s	856.1	 on some of her issues doesn't mean we're not going to have more issues in the future. There's still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=860.4s	860.4	 training to do. Can I have some more of that nom nom now? With this being 50% off for a two-week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=865.3s	865.3	 trial, Inersha can afford to share with me. Inersha, I'm going to have a link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=869.0s	869.0	 where you can get your own nom nom. But it might be harder to get her to share those Pupford super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=873.4s	873.4	 high quality shoes. I'll have links to all of that in the description just in case. Follow us on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=878.3s	878.3	 Instagram and TikTok and get a copy of both of my books. I mean if you like books of course. And if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=883.4s	883.4	 you want to know everything that I know about dog training anyway, subscribe to my channel. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBJpPMmOA1w&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=159&pp=iAQB&t=887.4s	887.4	 working out pretty good so far. See you next time.
