https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 It's been less than 48 hours since we had our most challenging training session of all time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=5.0s	5.0	 We have a couple of dogs running across the park. They're headed right for us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=8.5s	8.5	 Chop had a potty accident. No, no. We're going to a place where I heard there are 20 rescue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=16.1s	16.1	 homeless puppies. There's a moose in our backyard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=20.8s	20.8	 This is reality dog training. Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=26.2s	26.2	 Good. I want to start teaching Chop how to spin around in a circle. Yes. Good man. And you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=33.5s	33.5	 he follows it immediately there. And I'm going to reward by playing a little tug. Okay. Good. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=40.1s	40.1	 Good man. I mean, that's simple with him. I'm going to see if I can get two spins.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=45.5s	45.5	 Good. Okay. Maybe three. Yes. Good. Good boy. Good. Get it. And I mean, tricks like this really just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=54.6s	54.6	 come down to playing with your dog and having a good time. If he's that enthusiastic, as you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=59.9s	59.9	 see, it just makes training so easy. It seems like nothing sparks his interest like a brand new toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=65.6s	65.6	 Toys and treats are so valuable when training. That's why I call them currency. Look at that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=70.2s	70.2	 Look how dialed in. Yes. Good. So I'd say he's well on his way to learning spin. Great way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=77.0s	77.0	 start the day too. It gets his brain working, gets his body working. Pup Box is different in that it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 is a very training centric monthly subscription box. It's a great way to stay motivated and keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=87.0s	87.0	 getting new ideas for training your dog. They send you items and super detailed training advice each
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 month based on your dog's specific age. And that's really huge for people with growing puppies because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=97.5s	97.5	 they change so fast. Get 50% off your first Pup Box when you sign up for a three, six or 12 month
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=103.3s	103.3	 subscription at pupbox.com slash Zach. Use my special code Zach. I'm going to have a link in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=108.9s	108.9	 the description of this video. Brie and I decided to bring Chop out here to the park to give him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=114.7s	114.7	 some general outdoor time in a new place. We're in downtown Anchorage right now. So again, we've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=119.9s	119.9	 sought out an environment like this where we have dogs in the background, but at very big distances,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=125.1s	125.1	 hopefully most of the time so I can try to get him more acclimated to a place like this. I always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=131.3s	131.3	 start these training sessions with attention. Give me your attention when I ask for it. Here. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=138.2s	138.2	 Good man. Good boy. So my thinking here was that I'd come out here on the long lead,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=144.4s	144.4	 give him room to sniff around and to look should he decide that he wants to do that, but not too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=149.4s	149.4	 much. I mean, I want to make sure I keep a good handle on him, but I'm also trying to simulate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=155.1s	155.1	 a relatively off leash environment when he is complying well. Let's see when he perks up like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=160.1s	160.1	 that. I'll shorten the leash, make sure I have a grip on him. So what I'm hoping is we're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=164.6s	164.6	 catch him in the right mindset and be able to build some momentum when he does get in the mood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 to do some training here. And pretty much right away, we have a couple of dogs running across the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=175.0s	175.0	 park. They're headed right for us. And I know Chop will be overexcited by that if I don't create
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=179.9s	179.9	 some more distance. So I'm going to move him farther away. Good man. I see those dogs abruptly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=185.7s	185.7	 approaching. So I'm just trying to be a little preemptive here. So that was a good example of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=191.4s	191.4	 trying to prevent a reaction. Just going back 15 feet did a pretty good job there. Well, it looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 like we got a round two over here. They're coming up a little bit slower, but his eyes are on them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=202.5s	202.5	 Now I'm going to let him observe. Now I'm going to say, Hey Chop, let's go. Come on. With Chop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=208.6s	208.6	 I'm always balancing which type of rewards I use with him. Sometimes it's food, sometimes it's play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=213.7s	213.7	 In this case, it's the environment itself, which can be really reinforcing or rewarding to a dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=219.0s	219.0	 As long as Chop stays relatively calm, he keeps getting to do what he wants to do. And what he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=224.4s	224.4	 wants to do is check out everything that's going on around him. And as we learned, we were at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=229.9s	229.9	 dog park with him, it did help to be low, really focus on keeping his energy low, not getting him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=237.2s	237.2	 amped up, letting him look. It's kind of like when you're a small child and your parent has to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=242.1s	242.1	 down on your level and explain something to you. And just do your best to walk them through it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=248.6s	248.6	 You hear the vocalizations right now. That's often a sign of anxiety with dogs. So he's feeling a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=257.2s	257.2	 bit anxious. He would probably rather be over there than here right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=270.6s	270.6	 He vocalized, but he's leaning. He's not pulling, not a full out reaction. Good man. And here we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=276.2s	276.2	 seeing that trusting leaning behavior here. Such a big baby. Look, segue towards that looks like fun.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=283.7s	283.7	 Good man. What is that? That's crazy. A little bit of time has passed and now the same dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=289.1s	289.1	 are coming by us at a closer distance. Good man. Thank you. Good man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=298.8s	298.8	 Almost had it there. The sign of that dog chasing that frisbee was a little too much for Chop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=309.4s	309.4	 and it's hard to blame him. How many times have you seen me do that in practice? Throw a toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=314.3s	314.3	 He's not quite ready for it. Try not to pull. So I'm going to try to move him a little farther away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=320.6s	320.6	 to help him get his emotions back under control. Good man. He was doing so well there, but you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=326.0s	326.0	 that was a tough test. It's been less than 48 hours since we had our most challenging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=330.7s	330.7	 training session of all time outside the dog park. I'll play with you if you want to play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=335.8s	335.8	 When you can get a dog obsessed with tug, you can open up doors in your training. He wants to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=341.3s	341.3	 with this. He's just like, how do you do it? And those dogs are still over there. Good. Good man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=348.1s	348.1	 If he, if I can just get a little bit of tug, I'm going to let go to let him know you can have it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=351.8s	351.8	 But yes, just like that tug can be a great currency, like food or like fetch. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=358.4s	358.4	 he had that little spark. The dogs were right there. It's a little something. In other words,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=362.2s	362.2	 I was able to get pretty intense focus, albeit for a fraction of a moment on me while he seemed to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=368.2s	368.2	 aware of those dogs that excited him just a moment ago. Chop's fetch has been looking awesome, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=373.3s	373.3	 there's still one little habit that needs some polishing up. Sometimes he has like a double bite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=378.7s	378.7	 where he goes for it. When you try to take it out of his mouth. So I think it'd be a lot better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=383.0s	383.0	 if he just learned how to drop it. I've got his undivided attention right now, by the way. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=389.2s	389.2	 So let go. See how he doesn't let go when I ask. It kind of did. The correction for not complying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=397.1s	397.1	 here is limiting where he can go. I'm keeping him on a short leash. I'm not going to pick that ball
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=402.5s	402.5	 up until he actually leaves it alone for a second. Yes. Here. Okay. Good man. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=414.1s	414.1	 Yes. See how it's quiet? I waited for him to do it there. Yes. Okay. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=423.8s	423.8	 Let go. Leave it. Whispering. It works so well. Yes. You see how I keep giving it back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=431.4s	431.4	 when he complies. It can be counterintuitive, but one of the best ways to reinforce your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=436.1s	436.1	 dog for letting go of a toy is to give it right back to them. I'm trying to teach Chop that the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=440.9s	440.9	 fun is going to continue the second he behaves the way I want him to. I'm not asking him to leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=446.0s	446.0	 the ball alone for long periods of time during this game. I just want him to be polite while I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=450.7s	450.7	 reach in and pick it up. Just a few minutes ago, Chop was unable to resist that frisbee that was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=455.4s	455.4	 thrown by a stranger and chased by another dog. Of course, leaving this toy alone without a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=461.0s	461.0	 stranger or other dog around is easier for him. And that's the idea. If Chop is struggling,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=466.3s	466.3	 it's on me to find easier versions of his lessons to help him succeed. And that's exactly how you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=472.3s	472.3	 can help your dog to conquer harder stuff over time. Let go. Yes. While Chop is giving me this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=481.0s	481.0	 much attention, I want to practice some of his general compliance and training. Here. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=486.6s	486.6	 Here. Good man. Come on. Good. Here. Let's go this way. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=497.6s	497.6	 Waiting to see if he's going to. Yes. You saw how he was getting ahead of me. And then he slowed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=502.9s	502.9	 down. I really wanted to acknowledge that one. That was great. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=508.4s	508.4	 Get the ball out of sight. Yes. Still rewarding glances that look directly at my eyes rather
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=513.5s	513.5	 than looking for the ball. Come on. Good man. Yes. Loved how he came when I just said, come on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=521.0s	521.0	 real casually. Let go. Leave it. Yes. Here. Look at me. Good. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=532.6s	532.6	 Come on. Nope. He's getting there, but he really loves this ball from his pup box.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=538.0s	538.0	 My goal here is for Chop to stay near me while we're walking and to keep his attention on me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=543.0s	543.0	 instead of just this ball. Here. Yes. Let's work on backup. Chop. Here. How about backup?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=554.2s	554.2	 Let's straighten that out a little bit. Teaching backup is great for all kinds of reasons. In
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=559.2s	559.2	 Chop's case, it's a really good idea to show him how to move his body in a variety of different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=563.8s	563.8	 ways since he's approximately the size of an 18 wheeler. Good. Yes. A little bit straighter that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=570.2s	570.2	 time. It is really good, isn't it? Yeah. I haven't taught him many fun tricks since I've had him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=576.1s	576.1	 We've been focused on other things. Yes. There's a lot of ways to train Chick. I'm going to hold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=580.3s	580.3	 the treat and see if he maybe paws at it with his paw, at which time I'll release it. See right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=586.2s	586.2	 he probably thinks I'm doing something like leave it. Let me put a few salmon treats in there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=591.1s	591.1	 We put a few salmon treats in there. I'm using Pupford salmon treats today, by the way. Any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=596.2s	596.2	 movement to the paws is what I'm looking for. Yes. Okay. I'll take that. Certainly. These are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=602.6s	602.6	 amazing for training because they're real freeze dried salmon. Just kind of moving the lure around,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=607.9s	607.9	 seeing where he decides to try and pick up that paw and like say, Hey, what are you doing with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=613.6s	613.6	 that? Hold that still. Yes. Just like that. Pupford makes treats like this and more. And virtually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=619.5s	619.5	 every dog that I've used them on is obsessed with them. I'm going to have links below where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=623.6s	623.6	 you can check them out. Good man. You don't want to pick up their foot. That doesn't really teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=629.8s	629.8	 him to think. They're not really making the connection that way. Yes. Good man. Do you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=637.2s	637.2	 his eyes? Can you see him thinking? Yes. He's like, you can, I mean this, you're watching him learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=644.1s	644.1	 this for the first time right now. I've not worked with him at all on this. Yes. But you remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=649.6s	649.6	 the beginning of the lesson. It was like just putting a treat at his nose, hoping he's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=653.3s	653.3	 to figure out that one little thing, but dogs use their paws to investigate. Let's go ahead and put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=657.5s	657.5	 a word to it just so we can start planting the seed. Shake. Yes. Stay with distance. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=664.6s	664.6	 Yes. Ah, yes. Doesn't mean get up. So here. Stay. He goes from unmanageable to incredible. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=681.8s	681.8	 Okay. Well that's, I'm getting to know him too. You know, our communication is building. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=685.5s	685.5	 what happens when you spend a few weeks with a dog. Stay. Leave it. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=696.7s	696.7	 Yes. Okay. Good. So introducing those distractions. I would have really liked to have been able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=705.3s	705.3	 call him off of that ball away from it, but I also wanted to quit while I was ahead, but maybe I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=710.0s	710.0	 get that now. I don't know here. So we've got people kind of in our vicinity. He's got his attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 Leave it. Stay. Come. Good man. That's right. That's right. Very good. Okay. Let's get that ball. Go on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=730.2s	730.2	 In this case, I'm going to let him go get that ball because that was a first attempt on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=734.6s	734.6	 exercise. Being able to call him away from something he likes. That's something we should do. He likes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=740.2s	740.2	 the ball a whole lot. Maybe not as much as other dogs, but if we start there, it gives us something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=745.3s	745.3	 to build on. If I could get him playing in the presence of dogs like this, then I'd be on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=750.2s	750.2	 fast track to resolving this issue, I believe, because he'd be getting his outlet to play and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=754.5s	754.5	 chase. Yeah. There's the dog. See how he lost interest. The second he saw that dog with his eyes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=760.0s	760.0	 Chop. Come on. Let's go this way. Giving them some encouragement. Good man. Good boy. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=768.2s	768.2	 Good boy. I'll take it. Good boy. I mean, that's exactly what I'm trying to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=775.3s	775.3	 Come on. Come on, buddy. Good boy. Good boy. Right now, the fact that he's not returning it well is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=783.7s	783.7	 the least of my concerns because I want to really zoom in on the fact that he's playing with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=788.5s	788.5	 while there's a dog nearby. Something that until this point has pretty much been impossible,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=793.0s	793.0	 at least in public. And while playing is an indication that he's getting that outlet to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=797.2s	797.2	 run after something and satisfy that desire to play with something more acceptable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=801.7s	801.7	 you're also driving down that anxiety by exercising them. So hopefully if these dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=807.4s	807.4	 happen to make this loop over here, hopefully he'll be refreshed and satisfied enough where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=813.3s	813.3	 he won't feel the need to bark and react to that dog. And this is how over time I try to communicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=818.3s	818.3	 with a dog like this. I can give you so much fun in your life. But it all starts with here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=824.3s	824.3	 Yes. Okay. Attention is what that was. So he spotted the dog now. Can I keep him in the game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=829.9s	829.9	 or not? This is a key moment. More than anything else, Chop has struggled to stay focused on me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=835.4s	835.4	 when dogs are close to him. Come on, let's go get it. Let's get it. Good man. If I can keep his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=840.9s	840.9	 attention, this will be a great step in the right direction. Good boy. Hey, come on. Chop, here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=850.6s	850.6	 Where's that ball? Get that ball. You can really see I'm trying to do my best to convince him that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=855.6s	855.6	 that's just way more interesting than those boring dogs over there. All right, so let's take a step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=860.3s	860.3	 back here. But look, I'm not going to try to force it. If he would rather observe those dogs passing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=865.1s	865.1	 by, as long as he can resist having an outburst, that seems totally fair to me. Try and call him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=870.7s	870.7	 away from the dog. Try to go that way. Chop. Here. Okay. Good man. Okay, now right back into the toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=883.0s	883.0	 But the point is, I got his attention voluntarily off of yet another dog. Dog at a distance. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=889.2s	889.2	 one's pretty close. That's going to be tough for him. See how he perked up. But he could go into a sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=895.2s	895.2	 like that. Good man. Relax. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=901.8s	901.8	 He's curious about that dog, aren't you? That's an interesting looking dog. Good man. Doing great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=913.0s	913.0	 That's a wonderful chop. I think we've made some progress towards his reactivity to dogs so far
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=921.3s	921.3	 today. Not perfect, but he seems to be getting a little bit better each day with the occasional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=926.6s	926.6	 setback. I just wanted to tell you that as I was watching you and filming you, I wasn't sure if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=930.7s	930.7	 you could see it. But from my perspective, his reactions were so much less than yesterday. He
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=939.0s	939.0	 would bark, but he was almost like while barking, kind of pulling back like, oh, I just really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=942.9s	942.9	 really, really want to bark. And then sometimes when he barked, he didn't even pull or lunge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=946.8s	946.8	 while he was screaming. And that's a big difference. That's why I'm not terribly concerned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=953.1s	953.1	 about his reactivity, because he's just curious and excited. And so that's some of the...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=958.3s	958.3	 It's a little bit easier to deal with. I was really encouraged by his progress. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=963.6s	963.6	 that's what I wanted to see from him. I wanted to see that he could really focus on a human.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=968.4s	968.4	 I'll be up for a short period of time, because I know that once you get those little... When you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=972.3s	972.3	 get your foot in the door there, you can really start to grow that communication into much more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=977.6s	977.6	 sophisticated stuff and have a trained dog in no time. At first, the communication is slow to build,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=985.6s	985.6	 but then it asymptotically increases and you're just talking with your dog. It's incredible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=992.2s	992.2	 And we have some excitement going on in the yard as soon as we get home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1000.0s	1000.0	 Okay, so here we go. There's a moose next door. I heard him bark it out here. He knows that's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1006.0s	1006.0	 a dog. It's okay. Good man. Relax. Look at the pyloreaction. First time I've seen that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1010.1s	1010.1	 This may be his first time seeing a moose. It's okay. Relax. It's okay. Good man. Relax. He's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1018.6s	1018.6	 do you see what I see? Do not get us charged by a moose. But see, I mean, this is a good example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1025.3s	1025.3	 here. This is something he needs desensitizing around. If I were in the wild and he was off leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1030.8s	1030.8	 and I tried to get him, you know, he could be a little too fixated. So we don't want that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1039.3s	1039.3	 Chop. Hey, come. Let's go. Good man. Let's go. I know you guys are the same size.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1049.2s	1049.2	 That's good though. Pretty normal behavior. I mean, you know, a little alert from the two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1053.9s	1053.9	 dogs here, but seeing them be a little normal with such an abnormal animal in the presence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1062.1s	1062.1	 is kind of cool. Good girl. Good recovery. Just another day.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1069.3s	1069.3	 Just another day. I'm periodically taking notice. Looks like the moose has finally noticed us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1083.4s	1083.4	 Come on, let's go. All right, we're playing. Basically, I'm trying to get them to avoid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1089.2s	1089.2	 fixating on the moose, but noticing it because I don't want to encourage any reactivity here. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1094.3s	1094.3	 it's kind of a combination of the two. Check out your world, but let's not obsess.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1101.8s	1101.8	 Moose is over here. What are they doing? Right now, George is currently getting posted. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1108.2s	1108.2	 filming Chop and we're casting for the next series, which I think is going to be a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1114.2s	1114.2	 because we haven't done a puppy in a while and a lot of people are getting puppies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1118.2s	1118.2	 Yeah, and also because we're going to a place where I heard there are 20 rescue homeless puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1125.3s	1125.3	 needing homes. That's crazy. And so we are going to go see if we can find one of them to hopefully
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1130.9s	1130.9	 feature for you guys and help find a home. And also if we're going to a place with 20 puppies,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1135.4s	1135.4	 I have to show you. This is actually a pretty significant test for Chop. We're going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1139.7s	1139.7	 leaving him alone for several hours because we have to go into the interior of Alaska right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1145.0s	1145.0	 to see these puppies. He's passed out. So far, so good. We gave him a lot of time outside the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1151.7s	1151.7	 crate. We did a little bit of training and exercise. So yeah, he should be good. I'm so proud of his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1155.9s	1155.9	 house manners. He's coming so far. Very easy dog to live with these days. Yeah, he is. I feel like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1161.4s	1161.4	 I'm watching him transform before my eyes from a street dog to like a perfect sweet little house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1167.3s	1167.3	 prince. Rescue dogs just might genuinely be appreciative in a way that maybe other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1174.2s	1174.2	 aren't. I don't know. It always feels that way. It does feel that way. These puppies are from a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1178.9s	1178.9	 number of different litters in remote villages in Alaska, just like the one Chop came from. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1183.2s	1183.2	 we're considering choosing one of these puppies to star in our next series. And since Bri couldn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1188.6s	1188.6	 wait to show you guys this adorable footage, you might as well give us some feedback. Let us know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1193.5s	1193.5	 which one caught your eyes in the comments below. Bri and I've got to get some work done. So that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1198.6s	1198.6	 the plan for the rest of the day, but it's not been long enough to get our work done yet. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1202.7s	1202.7	 Bri is already calling me into the living room. I brought you here to confess. What's that? Chop had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1208.3s	1208.3	 a potty accident in the house on my watch. No, no. He came up to me while we were hanging out and he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1218.1s	1218.1	 barked at me once very purposefully. So the producer in me came out instead of, I guess, the dog mom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1224.6s	1224.6	 in me. And I was like, let me film this and see if he does a second demand bark so I can show these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1229.7s	1229.7	 guys what he's been doing. And then he just walked over and peed because he was trying to tell me that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1234.2s	1234.2	 he had to pee. So he's had a handful of potty accidents in the house, but overall he's definitely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1239.7s	1239.7	 trending to being much more reliable. I would be surprised if he had another potty accident while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1246.6s	1246.6	 he's with us because he's been spending hours and hours outside of that crate in the living room with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1251.4s	1251.4	 us. On another note though, his lesson at the park today was incredible. I mean, it wasn't perfect at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1258.6s	1258.6	 all, but it ended so well. We had so many really good moments during that lesson where I felt like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1264.9s	1264.9	 that was the tipping point. Now we're finally, finally starting to really get through when it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1269.6s	1269.6	 counts, when he's distracted by their dogs and things like that. So I'm just very optimistic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1275.2s	1275.2	 about that. Optimism is great and all, but if all of our work leading up to this point is going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1280.8s	1280.8	 matter at all, I have to make sure to capitalize on this training momentum over Chop's last few days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1286.6s	1286.6	 with me. In that moment, every bit of training I had done with him was meaningless. This is reality
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1292.6s	1292.6	 dog training. Get 50% off your first pup box when you use discount code Zack and sign up for a three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1298.6s	1298.6	 six or 12 month plan at pupbox.com slash Zack. Check out my totally free digital dog training course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1304.2s	1304.2	 and all of the awesome training treats, chews and rewards from Pupbird. I'll have special links for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1309.6s	1309.6	 everything in the description. If you're enjoying these episodes, subscribe and click the bell so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1313.3s	1313.3	 you never miss an episode. Follow us on Instagram and TikTok for daily updates and get a copy of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lmR9QyipFWg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=170&pp=iAQB&t=1317.8s	1317.8	 both of my books too. We'll see you next time.
