https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 We need to talk about our experience at the dog park today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 Why do I keep finding myself saying that line in these series?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=8.6s	8.6	 Without intervention, this could get out of control very easily.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=14.9s	14.9	 This is Chop. He is a homeless, wild Alaskan dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=18.2s	18.2	 And it's my job to train him and our job to find him a home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=21.6s	21.6	 But it won't be without plenty of challenges.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=27.1s	27.1	 This is Reality Dog Training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=29.4s	29.4	 Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=59.8s	59.8	 He recently just had his first potty accident in the house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=63.0s	63.0	 For a grown-up dog, we need to get that in check for sure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=67.1s	67.1	 One thing I can do though is to take him directly from that crate to outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=71.9s	71.9	 And that is something we should do when we're potty training our dogs, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=74.5s	74.5	 The thing about house training a dog like Chop is that you always have to be one step ahead of him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=79.6s	79.6	 And while this might seem obvious, feeding Chop on a regular schedule,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=83.4s	83.4	 or any dog, is going to definitely help with house training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=86.3s	86.3	 But I also know with some dogs, if you give them their meal,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=88.6s	88.6	 not all dogs will eat it instantly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=91.0s	91.0	 One hack that I've found to make sure that dogs gobble up their meal right away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=94.9s	94.9	 is to feed them extra delicious, really good quality food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=98.4s	98.4	 There's just nothing quite like Nom Nom.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=101.0s	101.0	 This food is actually made from restaurant quality ingredients
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=104.4s	104.4	 and customized by a real veterinary nutritionist
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=107.6s	107.6	 so that you're getting the best possible formula for your individual dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=112.2s	112.2	 They even portion the food out perfectly for your dog too in individual packets.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=116.8s	116.8	 It's literally portioned out to the individual calorie.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=120.6s	120.6	 Sometimes I can't resist taking a few of those calories for myself though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 If you want to try this food, or even let your dog try it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=127.8s	127.8	 all of you can get 50% off of a two-week trial by going to my special link,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=131.9s	131.9	 trinom.com slash Zach. I'll have a link below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=135.1s	135.1	 Of course, our dog Inertia and Chop are still working out their relationship.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=139.0s	139.0	 So I do want to give them a chance to have a little bit of social time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=142.2s	142.2	 first thing in the morning and see how they do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=144.1s	144.1	 And by getting Chop to play and have some fun first thing in the morning,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=147.6s	147.6	 I really think this will prime him for his overall training throughout the day.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=151.5s	151.5	 Easy buddy, don't be too rough. She's small.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=154.8s	154.8	 Hey, too buggy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=158.0s	158.0	 Easy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=160.2s	160.2	 She's taking it though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=165.2s	165.2	 I mean, my concern with Chop is he's bigger than he realizes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=169.8s	169.8	 As we've been bringing in foster dogs throughout Inertia's life,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=173.1s	173.1	 it's been giving her so many great experiences with different types of dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=176.5s	176.5	 Inertia is becoming a different dog because of George and because of Chop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=180.5s	180.5	 and all of these dogs that she's having great experiences with.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=183.6s	183.6	 And it's so rewarding to see her gain this much confidence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 Anybody who adopts Chop is definitely, absolutely, 100% going to have to vacuum all of the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=194.9s	194.9	 As you might know, dogs get thrown off and scared a whole bunch by the household vacuum cleaner.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=201.7s	201.7	 It's something that I like to be very purposeful with new dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=204.4s	204.4	 especially a dog like him who has such little experience being inside of a house like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=209.8s	209.8	 He almost certainly has never seen a vacuum cleaner like this and has no idea what it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=214.5s	214.5	 So I want to be very methodical. In other words, I don't want to wait for him to freak out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=218.3s	218.3	 over a vacuum cleaner and start barking and scratching at it to then try to fix that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=224.2s	224.2	 I want to be preemptive, knowing that this could very well cause him a good amount of stress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=231.0s	231.0	 if he doesn't understand what it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=233.4s	233.4	 So the first thing I want to do is just let him investigate the vacuum if he wants to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=238.2s	238.2	 I'm going to give him a treat really near it just to make sure he's comfortable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=241.1s	241.1	 Let him smell it. Yes. Love how he's reacting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=244.2s	244.2	 You see how I haven't even turned it on yet?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=246.2s	246.2	 I love doing this kind of training with dogs because it's a really good example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=251.1s	251.1	 of how you can take a bunch of small steps to make pretty dramatic progress in a short period of time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 I'm going to let him know that it moves like this. It goes back and forth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=261.0s	261.0	 In other words, I want to be really sensitive to all of the things that might cause him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=266.4s	266.4	 to be nervous by it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=267.4s	267.4	 And now for the moment of truth, let's see what happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=272.0s	272.0	 Good man. I meant to just start it one time, but I accidentally started it twice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=276.1s	276.1	 See how I didn't just turn it on and wait for him to start reacting?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=279.1s	279.1	 I wanted to catch him succeeding.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=281.2s	281.2	 I've had it on a total of two seconds and it's already like filled up with hair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=286.2s	286.2	 But you can see how he's intrigued by it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=289.7s	289.7	 Look at that moving it a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=292.5s	292.5	 Good man. So, so far, really great reaction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=296.4s	296.4	 And by the way, if your dog was already super scared of the vacuum,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=299.4s	299.4	 these are the steps you would do. You would do the same thing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=301.8s	301.8	 but you might have to do it with your dog farther away or even behind a closed door at first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=306.6s	306.6	 And maybe you have someone help you along with it by treating them on the other side of the door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 Good man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=316.6s	316.6	 Yes. Let me see if I can treat him while the vacuum is on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=321.2s	321.2	 Here. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=324.5s	324.5	 He's a little like flinchy. Let's go ahead and turn that off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=327.6s	327.6	 I like to go at a dog's pace when I'm doing things like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=330.0s	330.0	 You can see here that Chop is free to walk away at any time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=333.0s	333.0	 And if he did that or anything else to indicate that he was feeling a little bit more anxious,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=336.8s	336.8	 I want to notice things like that right away so that I can slow things down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=340.0s	340.0	 and keep him feeling comfortable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=341.3s	341.3	 This is really embarrassing, Bri.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=344.2s	344.2	 Look how much hair is just on this rug so far.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=351.9s	351.9	 And notice I'm not like going right at him at all. I'll let him check it out. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=361.1s	361.1	 Here. Good. So I'm also showing him how to behave in the presence of the vacuum.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=369.0s	369.0	 In other words, when he starts to approach it, I'm trying to get him over here instead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 By the way, this is the Hoover High Performance Swivel XL Pet Edition.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=378.4s	378.4	 Talk about high performance. That is so much hair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=381.2s	381.2	 Yeah, you did that. Are you proud of yourself?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=385.2s	385.2	 Thank goodness we live in an age though where you can have a hairy dog like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=390.1s	390.1	 and fix the problem. So that's cool. At least it's easy to empty though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=395.4s	395.4	 I'm going to have more information about this Hoover in the description of this video and where you can get one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=406.0s	406.0	 My objective today is to teach Chop how to stay for a period of time and with some distance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=411.1s	411.1	 And I'm going to introduce those separately.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=413.8s	413.8	 We're kind of late in the game to be working on a basic stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=417.0s	417.0	 I did work with him on stay at doorways. He did really well with that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=420.8s	420.8	 but he has not generalized what stay means in a variety of contexts and settings.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=427.8s	427.8	 I don't know about you guys, but I get really weak need in places like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=433.0s	433.0	 This is so high up and it's pretty much a straight cliff down there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=436.1s	436.1	 So I really will need to be careful about not letting Chop go over the cliff.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=441.9s	441.9	 The other benefit to training out here is that it's pretty secluded and there aren't very many distractions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=447.7s	447.7	 For some dogs, simply being outside would be a huge distraction to them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=451.6s	451.6	 For him, not so much. He doesn't find this type of environment to be overwhelming.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=455.5s	455.5	 Remember, he's spent his entire life outside. So outside isn't that distracting to him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=460.6s	460.6	 It's only reasonable to allow Chop and myself and maybe even you guys a second here to take in these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=466.7s	466.7	 surroundings because wow, just look at this place. Oh, you want to play with the ball, don't you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=472.4s	472.4	 I suspect he wants the ball, but I feel like he's pretty adjusted here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=476.0s	476.0	 I mean, he's still a little distracted. Let's see how it goes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=478.3s	478.3	 I'm going to start with a stand stay right now because he's really comfortable in a stand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=481.8s	481.8	 Let's start off with some warm up exercises. Chop here. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=488.4s	488.4	 He'll get better with those catches over time here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=491.0s	491.0	 Right now. I'm just simply making sure that I get his attention on me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=495.0s	495.0	 And so now I just want to go for a one second stay here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=498.8s	498.8	 Yes. I don't really mind the backing up so much. The fact is he's focused on me. He's not running
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=503.5s	503.5	 off. We can fine tune the stay later. Let's teach him what the word stay means. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=511.8s	511.8	 Yes. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=514.7s	514.7	 One of the reasons this is a great place to train is that it's pretty secluded and there actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=518.8s	518.8	 aren't many distractions like cars or pedestrians or other dogs. Even the local wildlife, most of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=525.2s	525.2	 the traffic areas like this is going to be a key part of me training Chop before we test him in more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=532.3s	532.3	 tempting locations. Now let's teach him what the hand signal means. Yes. I mean, right there. I just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=539.4s	539.4	 caught him staying. I don't know that he was intentionally doing anything. So while I'm training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=543.4s	543.4	 Chop to stay, it really is about catching him succeeding. Even if he can only stay for a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=549.0s	549.0	 seconds, he's still going to be able to catch up with me. He's going to be able to catch up with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=554.3s	554.3	 even if he can only stay for a microsecond at first. That's okay with me because that's a success.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=559.4s	559.4	 And my attitude is if I have to work up to four microseconds over the next four months, so be it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=565.4s	565.4	 Don't worry though. It won't take that long. Here. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=571.9s	571.9	 Yes. That was a really long one. Really good eye contact there. So I'm thrilled with that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=577.8s	577.8	 Let's move on to teaching him how to stay while I walk away. This is going to be harder. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=584.8s	584.8	 See how he wants to close the distance between us. It's understandable for dogs to be confused
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=589.2s	589.2	 by this concept at first. Most dogs really love to follow us everywhere. So it makes sense.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=597.0s	597.0	 Yes. He started to walk forward. He corrected himself a bit there. So I'll take that. He's trying.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=602.8s	602.8	 Look at me. Yes. That's how I wanted to make it easier. I just took a step a foot back. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=610.2s	610.2	 Here. Yes. Good. So notice the distance at first. It's pretty insignificant. I'm just moving inches
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=620.2s	620.2	 away from him. That's how we can focus on setting our dogs up for success. And then if we slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=624.7s	624.7	 build on that before you know it, you're at six, 10, 20 or more feet here. Stay. Yes. Good. Really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=633.6s	633.6	 good example right there. Okay. Hand signal now. Yes. Okay. Way to not flinch. Thumbs up for Brie.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=646.2s	646.2	 That was pretty slick from my perspective. Back up. Good. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=653.4s	653.4	 Yes. Okay. He's really good on that. Okay. Isn't he seems to really understand that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=660.2s	660.2	 So we've done stay for a period of time. We've done stay with a little bit of distance. I feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=664.6s	664.6	 like he's understanding the concept of stay somewhat. I need to practice this a lot. But if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=669.2s	669.2	 you take nothing else from this, keep it easy for your dog and they'll learn fast. Chopin and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=674.5s	674.5	 inertia are really getting to know each other very well here. And they're getting much more confident
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=679.6s	679.6	 about playing together everywhere, including my living room. But just because dogs play well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=684.5s	684.5	 a handful of times doesn't mean that you're completely out of the woods and they're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=688.3s	688.3	 to get along forever and everything is perfect. So I'm going to continue to supervise them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=693.2s	693.2	 thoroughly and make sure that I step in before play accelerates to a point where it could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=697.8s	697.8	 potentially cause a conflict between the two dogs, or at least I'll do my best.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=703.2s	703.2	 And this is a great example of what I'm talking about here. Inertia is just a little startled by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=708.2s	708.2	 falling here. And I think she probably needs a break right here to recover emotionally from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=712.7s	712.7	 being frightened. So I'm going to step in and make sure that Chop gives inertia the space she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=718.0s	718.0	 requires. This is the kind of incident that can escalate with some dogs if you're not paying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=722.6s	722.6	 attention and you're not right there to intervene. And so by giving these dogs lots of opportunities
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=727.7s	727.7	 to interact with each other in short periods of time, allowing them to take a break and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=732.1s	732.1	 resume playing, I'm hopeful this will be successful. A little while later, Brie was out with the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=737.2s	737.2	 and she caught something on camera that she thought I needed to see. It looked to me like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=742.5s	742.5	 he got protective of a toy. Hey, Inertia come. So I showed it to Zach, what did you think?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=750.9s	750.9	 Well, yeah, I agree with you. He was protective. But it seems like playful selfishness. At first,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=758.8s	758.8	 I was really nervous because he's so big and you know, I just don't want to take any chances.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=763.2s	763.2	 But every time he does it, he like pounces on the toy and then Inertia goes to another and then he'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=767.8s	767.8	 pounce on that one. Seems more bratty, right? Yes. Hey, that seems more bratty. Hey, brat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=777.5s	777.5	 I'm not too concerned about it because I mean, I've seen a lot of this stuff before. It's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=781.8s	781.8	 how dogs communicate with each other. And if you can get in there and build some communication with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=786.3s	786.3	 them so you can be like, you can do this, but you can't do that, then I think we'll be okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=791.0s	791.0	 But you never know. I mean, sometimes those are signs that there are other issues that could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=795.8s	795.8	 escalate and that's the last thing we want. So I'm hoping it's going to be a textbook case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=802.2s	802.2	 of resolving resource guarding. It's not a funny topic, but I was smiling while you were saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=806.2s	806.2	 that because I was thinking about how Chop, now that I've gotten to know him, intimidates me so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=813.0s	813.0	 much less than Pancake. Whoa, dude, chill. Or Tiberius. You can't do that. What are you doing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=820.9s	820.9	 And they are two of the cutest dogs on this earth and yet I was way more scared of them than I am
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=826.0s	826.0	 of this guy. But you're right, I still want to be careful. How did you get that? Our garbage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=832.2s	832.2	 goes under the counter, right? I guess it wasn't closed all the way. He's a smart guy. I watched
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=837.2s	837.2	 him try to open it yesterday and he wasn't just like randomly digging at the cabinet. Like he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=841.5s	841.5	 went for the handle where we grab it and like gently tried to figure out leverage. You stinker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=847.5s	847.5	 I'm going to have to develop a strategy as to how to handle that. My plan for the immediate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=851.9s	851.9	 future is to just do a good job of managing resources like toys or bones, things like that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=858.2s	858.2	 when he and inertia are together. I'm going to be very vigilant in my supervision and otherwise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=863.8s	863.8	 Yes. I think it's time that we go practice around other dogs to see if we can make progress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=871.1s	871.1	 on his conduct. You might remember not too long ago when I took Chop out in public,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=875.4s	875.4	 we definitely had some issues. He was crazy every time he saw a dog. I'm hoping to get some energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=881.8s	881.8	 out of him because I still want to go practice in a more distracting environment than this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=887.0s	887.0	 but I want to set him up for success. So trying to give him some good exercise before that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=891.3s	891.3	 Just thinking about how important just having your dog's attention is and how that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=895.8s	895.8	 probably 90 plus percent of dog training. And when you teach them obedience or tricks or just how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=903.0s	903.0	 generally listen to you, it's kind of a measure of how well you're able to hold their attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=908.6s	908.6	 Chop, come on, let's go. Come on. There we go. Good. Nice and timely there. Thank you for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=915.4s	915.4	 almost listening. Come on, let's go, buddy. Something I like to do is get into a big field
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=921.3s	921.3	 like this, throw the lead on them, just kind of walk aimlessly, let them smell, wander a little bit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=927.4s	927.4	 get that fixation out, desensitize them to the world, be fair to them, let them explore on his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=932.4s	932.4	 terms a little bit. You have to meet them halfway and let them do what they love doing too. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=937.8s	937.8	 such a wet day. Look at that. And when you're training a dog, you have to get out in conditions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=942.5s	942.5	 like this just because it's a little wet outside doesn't mean you don't train. So having the right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=947.3s	947.3	 gear is important. These shoes have been incredible. They're completely waterproof,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=951.6s	951.6	 which is insane. That foot is completely dry. There you go. See that? There's hair on them and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=957.6s	957.6	 they're a little dirty. But they're not wet. And look at this. Slip right back on. It's the best.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=966.2s	966.2	 Vessi's seem to have invented magic shoes. There are now two mysteries I have on Earth. Number one,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=971.6s	971.6	 how to Eels procreate. Secondly, how to Vessi's keep your feet dry. I'll have a link and discount
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=979.0s	979.0	 code in the description where you can go and get your pair of Vessi's. We need to talk about our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=986.4s	986.4	 experience at the dog park today. Why do I keep finding myself saying that line in these series?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=992.6s	992.6	 I really thought I had built enough communication with him going into that training lesson. I thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=999.0s	999.0	 I would have better results than I did. The thing is sometimes my job is just downright hard. It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1004.1s	1004.1	 really is. Sometimes it's hard to get a dog not to bark and lunge at a dog when they're excited by a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1010.5s	1010.5	 Today we're going to go train around lots of different dogs. The catch is Chop won't be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1015.8s	1015.8	 engaging or playing with any of them. We're going out to a dog park, but we're going to stay outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1021.2s	1021.2	 of the dog park. My goal will be to see if I can somehow get his attention on me when there are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1026.9s	1026.9	 dogs close by. I mean, when he sees dogs, he is like, I've got to get to them. Geez. And right away,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1034.3s	1034.3	 we have an adorable dog coming up to check us out. Here. Yeah, very distracted as you can see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1043.5s	1043.5	 That's okay. I'm just going to let him observe these dogs for a little while before I try to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1047.7s	1047.7	 train him. And like with many dogs, Chop is so stimulated in this new place that he's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1054.1s	1054.1	 interested in treats and he's not interested in toys. The plan is for this to change as we give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1060.0s	1060.0	 him more experiences in places like this over time. Okay. He was doing all right at this distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1068.7s	1068.7	 for a little bit, but now he's had enough of just looking at these dogs and it seems like he really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1074.7s	1074.7	 just wants to play with them. So right now he's just frustrated here and he just wants to play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1079.7s	1079.7	 That's exactly the issue. If he's out taking a walk with somebody and they encounter a dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1084.7s	1084.7	 we can't have him think, Oh, when I see dogs, I get to run up to them and play with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1089.5s	1089.5	 I'm going to increase our distance from these dogs. The thing that he's finding very enticing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1094.4s	1094.4	 and exciting since Chop seems to be a little over threshold here. Remember that's where he's too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1099.8s	1099.8	 excited to pay attention to me because he's so interested in his surroundings. Chop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1105.7s	1105.7	 there are so many people watching this right now. Can you just please pay attention to me?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1110.6s	1110.6	 There can be a certain level of anxiety when your dog is causing a scene in public. People that have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1117.0s	1117.0	 reactive dogs. I mean, I feel like they have to know what you're talking about. Yes, I have.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1121.4s	1121.4	 I know what you're talking about. I have a reactive dog. I mean, you know, I've had to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1125.2s	1125.2	 work through that. For me, when Indy was younger, she was very reactive to other dogs out in public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1130.5s	1130.5	 and I always felt so alone, but I think it's just because you spend all your time running away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1137.1s	1137.1	 everyone else that you see. So like, even if there is someone who understands your plight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1141.6s	1141.6	 you're busy trying to get two blocks away from them because your dog's going to bark at them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1146.2s	1146.2	 So it's a lonely endeavor sometimes to train a reactive dog. I feel like especially in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1150.9s	1150.9	 beginning part of it. Yeah, but not for you because you have a lot of friends watching you. So that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1155.4s	1155.4	 nice. Yeah, that's delightful. So now we're backed up all the way to the woods here. We can't get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1159.9s	1159.9	 much farther away than this and Chop is still reacting. In my experience, creating distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1166.1s	1166.1	 from these other dogs plus giving Chop time to observe them should equal Chop being able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1173.1s	1173.1	 summon a little bit more self-control. Clearly we have a little ways to go though. This is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1178.4s	1178.4	 really important point here. I don't need to scold Chop for this behavior and that's for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1183.4s	1183.4	 number of different reasons. For one thing, he's not open-minded to learning complex skills like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1188.6s	1188.6	 ignoring other dogs when he's overwhelmed like this. Also, even though I'm not scolding him,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1194.0s	1194.0	 there is still a consequence in his mind or hopefully for this outburst. He is being taken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1199.7s	1199.7	 farther away from the thing that he's interested in right now. Ideally, I'm trying to compensate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1204.1s	1204.1	 for the error that I made here by trying to find the ideal distance where Chop is able to pay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1209.6s	1209.6	 attention to me. So we've moved over here. We're very far away. This has quickly evolved into a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1216.3s	1216.3	 screensaver training session here. My hope was that I would be able to be, you know, 10 or 20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1221.9s	1221.9	 yards away from the dogs and I'd be able to focus on getting his attention on me and doing some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1226.5s	1226.5	 leash training. But he was way over threshold pretty instantaneously when I was giving him that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1231.9s	1231.9	 initial exposure to those dogs behind the fence. But let's keep things in context. This is literally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1236.9s	1236.9	 his second time in a park-like setting where there are dogs. You remember last time we made a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1242.2s	1242.2	 progress. We sat there for a good while, close to three hours if I'm not mistaken, to let him like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1247.1s	1247.1	 take it in and then intermittently he would be responsive. Right now I can live with this behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1253.0s	1253.0	 because you see how he's not just fixating on the dogs. He's looking at the traffic over here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1257.8s	1257.8	 sitting down, leaning on me more, suggesting that he's semi-relaxed. Getting him calm down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1266.0s	1266.0	 is going to hopefully set us up here. But this is a sign that he's adapting and he's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1271.4s	1271.4	 too over threshold right now. But if you think back to a few minutes ago when he was inconsolable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1277.0s	1277.0	 impossible to communicate with, I can understand why so many people would be discouraged and say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1282.4s	1282.4	 their dog is stubborn or my dog will not pay attention to me around other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1288.2s	1288.2	 I think what a lot of people don't realize is that the cure is a little bit of patience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1293.4s	1293.4	 and being flexible on your game plan. Now the catch is you have to do this over a prolonged
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1298.2s	1298.2	 period of time with most dogs. The steps aren't particularly complicated. It's just letting your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1303.0s	1303.0	 dog observe things and let those things become normal to them. I mean if you spend enough time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1308.8s	1308.8	 around something it all becomes normal. That's probably the missing ingredient I think that most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1313.8s	1313.8	 people are lacking when it comes to resolving issues like this. I talk about that in both of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1318.7s	1318.7	 my books by the way. Links below. Ah look at this. There we go. A nice natural settle. Did you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1325.5s	1325.5	 that? So he finally, you know, a sign that he's calming down which is good. There we go. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1333.6s	1333.6	 it. First ball grab of the training session. So that's a sign that things are getting a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1338.2s	1338.2	 more normalized. You might wonder whether trying to get Chop to play with this ball is counter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1343.0s	1343.0	 productive since we're also trying to get him to stay calm around exciting things. But if he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1347.8s	1347.8	 definitely going to be excited I'd much rather channel that excitement into something more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1352.9s	1352.9	 productive like paying attention to me and this ball. When he starts to show interest in a toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1358.3s	1358.3	 that I know he loves at home I think that's probably an indicator that he's starting to adjust to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1363.0s	1363.0	 excitement around him. In my mind I was like man what are we gonna do today? I don't think he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1367.7s	1367.7	 going to pay attention at all because I couldn't get his attention on me. I couldn't get him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1371.5s	1371.5	 interested in his favorite toy. He wasn't taking treats. All he wanted to do is focus on those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1375.9s	1375.9	 dogs. We come over here. We chill out for a little bit. I don't know 15 minutes or so and he's kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1381.8s	1381.8	 of relaxed a little enough to get back into kind of our normal way of training. Now that Chop is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1387.0s	1387.0	 doing a little bit better I want to test again and see if we can get a little bit closer to those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1391.6s	1391.6	 dogs. Chop over here. Let's go back. See that little vocalization tells me all right I need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1398.2s	1398.2	 to get back here because that's likely to just continue to get worse and worse and then I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1402.8s	1402.8	 taken a step back. So maybe I'll hang out right here. We're still quite far away from the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1407.8s	1407.8	 dogs and I think that we're right on the cusp right on that borderline so I'm hopeful that he'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1413.4s	1413.4	 calm down and observe them. Loose leash. Not lunging towards them. That's what I'm choosing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1418.3s	1418.3	 was choosing to call a success but I guess you could make a case that I probably need to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1423.6s	1423.6	 farther back but my guts telling me we'll probably be okay here if we just give it a few. Things like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1429.3s	1429.3	 that automatic sit, lying down, patiently and politely observing. It's exactly the kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1437.5s	1437.5	 body language that I'm looking for out of him. This is the formula. No shortcuts folks. I'm gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1442.3s	1442.3	 walk around a little bit just in this area seeing how compliant he is now. My dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1447.6s	1447.6	 my hypothesis is supported here that we're right at the line because when we walk towards the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1452.1s	1452.1	 look how uninterested he is. Come here. Yeah good man. That's it. So I'm loving that I can get him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1459.4s	1459.4	 to go away from the direction of the other dogs. Good man. Do you want this? Yes. Ah how about that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1468.4s	1468.4	 May not look like much but we were walking towards the dogs and he was receptive to taking the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1474.1s	1474.1	 reward. If he's receptive to taking the reward then the idea is that I can motivate him to behave a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1479.6s	1479.6	 certain way if he's willing to find enjoyment in that reward. All right Chop is now starting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1484.6s	1484.6	 like the ball again. It's normal for dogs moods and desires to shift throughout a training session
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1489.8s	1489.8	 so really aiming to be in sync with them is a goal of ours when we're training a dog and look how much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1496.3s	1496.3	 closer to the other dogs we are now. I'm telling you time, a little bit of patience can be a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1503.0s	1503.0	 trainer's best friend. Sit? Yes. I'm trying to heavily reinforce that sit because he's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1509.4s	1509.4	 struggled with it today. We're getting good sits. Getting Chop to pay attention to me and look up to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1514.2s	1514.2	 me for direction is something that I want him doing regularly and often in all environments so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1520.6s	1520.6	 this might be a good opportunity to practice around these guys. This is a major level up in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1525.9s	1525.9	 difficulty for Chop. See if we can get back to normal training where he's focused on my eyes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1530.5s	1530.5	 instead of the ball. Remember at home, yes he does that really well and right now he's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1537.2s	1537.2	 it really well so we're seeing quite a turnaround at the moment. Here. Good. Yes. Rewarding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1545.8s	1545.8	 intermittently trying to get several steps in and then seal in that good behavior by giving him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1551.9s	1551.9	 a reward. Something he values. Yes. Choosing to reward that sit 95 plus percent of the time right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1561.0s	1561.0	 now. Yeah buddy. Good job. And so really the reward here is continued access to observing the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1573.8s	1573.8	 here. He's behaving politely. He can look at the dogs when he's not. We're going to continue to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1579.2s	1579.2	 get him farther away. Good man. Here. Good recovery. Chop. Sit. Good man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1589.4s	1589.4	 As a reminder, you'll notice I'm saying good to let him know he's on the right track and I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1593.6s	1593.6	 saying yes to let him know when he's earned a reward. I would love to be able to get his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1597.2s	1597.2	 eyes on me and walk away. Come on. It doesn't take much to make me happy. That's what I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1604.2s	1604.2	 been working for this entire afternoon. Look at me with dogs nearby and let's walk away without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1609.6s	1609.6	 me having to escort him away. You know, sometimes you have days where your dog just is learning so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1615.4s	1615.4	 fast and making so much progress and you have other days that don't go so well. You have days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1619.9s	1619.9	 like this where you get some success, but you really have to earn it. But he's still pulling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1624.8s	1624.8	 on the leash. I'm not going to hold him to the bar of perfection right now. There's so much give and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1630.6s	1630.6	 take. Choose to be happy with small bits of success, especially in the beginning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1634.7s	1634.7	 You guys know that saying it gets worse before it gets better. Well, I'm not saying that that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1639.7s	1639.7	 accurate to this series, but I'm not saying it's not accurate either. This is Reality Dog Training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1647.0s	1647.0	 Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode. Get 50% off a two-week trial of Nom Nom.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1652.8s	1652.8	 The Hoover High Performance Swivel XL Pet can be yours for 20% off and get 25 bucks off a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1659.6s	1659.6	 pair of amazing Vessi's. What more could you need in life? I'll have my special links and discount
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1665.2s	1665.2	 codes in the description of this video. Follow us on TikTok and Instagram and get both of my books
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOHqq3L9eQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1670.0s	1670.0	 too. I'll have the links below. See you in the next episode.
