https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Do you know what it's like when you first get on a roller coaster and you're going up the hill
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=4.3s	4.3	 and the roller coaster is going clickety clack, clickety clack, and you have no idea what it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 going to be like? Maybe you're going to have the time of your life or maybe you're going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 terrified. If he's acting like this, I'm starting to second guess my decision to have him interact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=24.5s	24.5	 with Inertia, my dog, again. By the way, did I mention that I'm not fond of roller coasters?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=30.1s	30.1	 This is Chomp, a wild Alaskan street dog with minimal human contact. His manners leave a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=37.8s	37.8	 to be desired. We are in Alaska to get this man ready for his new life, if we can survive it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=48.9s	48.9	 This is Reality Dog Training. Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=55.0s	55.0	 So today I'm taking this untrained dog to a public park and my wife, who's just sitting behind the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=60.6s	60.6	 camera, isn't even trying to stop me right now. If he's acting like this around other dogs out here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=67.9s	67.9	 I'm starting to second guess my decision to have him interact with Inertia, my dog, again. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=74.2s	74.2	 the second half of our first day together. I touched on some super basic training with Chomp
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=79.4s	79.4	 earlier today to start building that communication. I was using his meal to train him. We were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=84.1s	84.1	 having great results, for the most part. Have you ever had a dog food that was so good you were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 tempted to eat it yourself? I'm not saying I have eaten my dog's food. This tastes exactly like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=96.7s	96.7	 if I was trying to eat super healthy. Don't be jealous. People make fun of me for it, but tell me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=104.3s	104.3	 that doesn't look like something you would eat. Well, I mean, it looks like human food because it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=108.2s	108.2	 is human food. Nom Nom has veterinary nutritionists that will actually design a fresh meal for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=113.9s	113.9	 dog, and they ship these pre-portioned meals right to your door. And yes, that plastic is recyclable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=120.1s	120.1	 Use my special link trinom.com slash Zach to get 50% off a two-week trial. I'm going to have a link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=126.3s	126.3	 in the description. So even though we had progress this morning, having progress carry over in a more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=132.2s	132.2	 enticing place, you know, than my driveway, is not super likely on day one. But ready or not,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=138.8s	138.8	 I feel I need to take Chop into public to see how he behaves. It will be a fact-finding mission.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=145.4s	145.4	 So we have some dogs walking up here. There are so many unknowns with him. I have no idea how he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 reacts to other dogs yet. So he's curious about them. We've just gotten out of the car, so I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=158.6s	158.6	 to let them clear out. That actually caught me off guard there. I was a little surprised by that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=162.2s	162.2	 I barely know this dog, and I've only got a few weeks to train him. By taking him out to this real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=166.7s	166.7	 world environment, this is going to tell me what I need to work on in order to find him the best
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 home possible. I'm keeping an eye on Chop's overall demeanor to try to get some clues about his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=176.8s	176.8	 emotional state during his experience here. Look at his tail, more alert. He sees this dog over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=182.2s	182.2	 playing. All right, let's go. Come on. He may have never been to a place quite like this, you know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=188.8s	188.8	 He sees a lot of people. There are a lot of distractions here at this particular park.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=193.3s	193.3	 You can see he's very interested in his surroundings for sure. It may not look like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=197.4s	197.4	 it, but he's definitely pulling quite hard. You know, just because he's pulling right here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=201.4s	201.4	 I don't like all that tension around his neck. So I'm going to go ahead and put him on the harness,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=205.1s	205.1	 and I'll reiterate the really big objective here is to let him get out to see this world,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=210.5s	210.5	 because he's going to have to be a well-adjusted dog with his new family. Since we have bikes on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=215.0s	215.0	 this path, I've got to be extra careful too. Boy, look at him. He loves investigating the grass here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=222.4s	222.4	 We're in a much different environment than we just were. So you can see if I'm like, hey, here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=230.3s	230.3	 Look at me. Not interested. I've just got to let him check things out. I'm going to create some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=235.3s	235.3	 distance though. I mean, you guys remember just a couple of hours ago, he was looking at me and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=239.5s	239.5	 paying attention to me almost perfectly at times, right? He was doing it in the living room just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=245.0s	245.0	 fine. Then we went outside and there was even dogs barking in the background. And I was still able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=250.2s	250.2	 get his attention. Like it was nothing. But out here, he's pretty clearly overwhelmed so far.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=256.4s	256.4	 Okay. So he didn't look at me, but he didn't have an outburst either. So that's fair. In general,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=262.0s	262.0	 it's probably not a good idea for him to interact with dogs in public. I want him knowing that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 there's a time and a place to interact with dogs. But when we're out on a walk like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=270.6s	270.6	 that's not the time. So I don't want to reinforce that by having him go up and greet other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=275.5s	275.5	 right now. Some dogs can really react to things like bicycles or rollerblades. And you might recall,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=281.0s	281.0	 I struggled with this with my own dog, Inertia, when she was younger. Don't know if he's ever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=285.1s	285.1	 seen a bicycle. I do know he has seen four of them right now though. So that's a pretty good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=291.0s	291.0	 experience. As I'm looking at him, sometimes he appears more relaxed and other times he seems
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=296.8s	296.8	 more on edge. From time to time, I'll see him yawning coupled with other signs of anxiety.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 So he's kind of in and out. Here. Not yet. All right. Here we go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=313.8s	313.8	 I can't get him to look at me. He's not paying attention to me at all out here. I halfway expected
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=319.2s	319.2	 this. I thought he might be a little more compliant than this, but I'm not deterred by it because this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=323.4s	323.4	 is completely normal. It's clear he just needs more desensitizing to the environment. So I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=328.5s	328.5	 walking around, even parking here and just hanging out is probably our best bet. He did react to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=334.5s	334.5	 first dogs he saw, but the last dogs he's done really well with, albeit at a slightly farther
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=340.4s	340.4	 distance. So as this dog approaches, hopefully he'll react favorably. Oh, sorry. Relax.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=350.6s	350.6	 Hello dude.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=357.4s	357.4	 Interesting. That's the most significant reaction I've seen out of him. Again, I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=362.2s	362.2	 almost positive. Yeah. Okay. Come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=370.3s	370.3	 That was definitely less than ideal. If he's acting like this around other dogs out here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=377.8s	377.8	 I'm starting to second guess my decision to have him interact with Inertia, my dog, again. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=383.8s	383.8	 Inertia's history with other dogs has been fraught with challenges. One thing we can say for certain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=389.4s	389.4	 is that Chop acts exuberant and sometimes hyperactive in the presence of dogs. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=395.4s	395.4	 Inertia doesn't always love big exuberant dogs. Okay. Let's break down what happened. So leading
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=402.6s	402.6	 up to this point, we had been in this spot for a good while and Chop was pretty calmly watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=407.8s	407.8	 things go by at various distances. But as this dog is approaching, Chop is completely fixated.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=415.5s	415.5	 So the next best thing that I can think of to do here is to let him observe the dog calmly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=420.6s	420.6	 just like he did with the last dog. So hopefully he can simply satisfy his curiosity and we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=425.8s	425.8	 begin to move on from this. This is an example where Chop is clearly over threshold. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=432.6s	432.6	 where your dog's emotional state is so high, they become unable to pay attention to you. When this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=437.9s	437.9	 happens when I have a dog, I fall back on management. In other words, I just try to control the dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=443.8s	443.8	 keep him from acting out or getting access to the other dog, obviously, and trying to get him away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=448.8s	448.8	 from whatever is causing him to behave that way. In other words, I'm trying to de-escalate the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=453.3s	453.3	 situation. Moving forward, I'm going to be doing my best to minimize outbursts like this in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=458.1s	458.1	 future while also trying to make progress with him over the time that I have him. So the best
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=462.1s	462.1	 thing I can do is try to better prepare him for situations just like this. Sorry buddy, you okay?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=468.1s	468.1	 Relax. I'm pretty positive he just wants to play. Nonetheless, he cannot be doing that when he sees
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=475.1s	475.1	 dogs. So we're starting probably to see some of his true nature come out here, a very enthusiastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=482.2s	482.2	 large strong dog. But right now you can see he's not interested in paying attention to me. In fact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=487.8s	487.8	 quite the opposite. He's reacting and lunging. At least it gives us something to work on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=492.2s	492.2	 One of the problems with where I am right now is I couldn't really get farther away. I kind of back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=497.0s	497.0	 myself into a corner. So I'm going to stop the walk right here. I'm going to pull off to a bench
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=501.4s	501.4	 and hang out and let Chop just check out his environment and hopefully experience what it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=507.0s	507.0	 like to be calm in the presence of dogs. We're about to get a test to see if he can even manage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=512.8s	512.8	 this distance right now. Okay, hey, relax. Okay, relax.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=524.6s	524.6	 Good man. It's okay. Okay, good boy. He seems to be recovering okay here, but it's pretty borderline.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=530.8s	530.8	 Something that might be complicating matters is the fact that we have him on leash at all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=534.8s	534.8	 Obviously in an environment like this, he has to be comfortable on leash, but he may not be very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=540.1s	540.1	 comfortable with public outings like this while being on a leash. He doesn't know how he's supposed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=544.8s	544.8	 to act yet. Remember until recently Chop was a wild dog wandering the streets in a remote village.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=552.6s	552.6	 And my hope is that he will naturally relax here at some point, maybe lie down and enjoy the cool
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=559.8s	559.8	 breeze. Looks like we're far from that right now, but I feel like if I stay out here long enough,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=566.0s	566.0	 maybe, just maybe. Hey Siri, set a timer for three hours. All right, so to be clear, my hypothesis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=573.2s	573.2	 here is that Chop just needs a little bit more time to take in this environment so he can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=578.9s	578.9	 stabilize mentally and act more calmly. So I've got my whole afternoon blocked off for him since
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=585.0s	585.0	 this is my first day working with him. It's going to be interesting to see how this develops.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=589.6s	589.6	 Even though we've taken efforts to get away from other dogs, there's a dog coming right at us pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=594.7s	594.7	 quickly. So rather than stay put this time like I did last time, I'm going to try to be more proactive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=599.8s	599.8	 by getting farther away from this dog because I'm trying to keep him under threshold this time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=605.3s	605.3	 Distance from that dog is going to be my friend. And if you're wondering why I'm not giving him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=609.8s	609.8	 treats right now, he's not really into the treats. He just wants to check out his surroundings and I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=613.8s	613.8	 anticipated that coming out here today because it is such a dramatic change to his environment. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=618.3s	618.3	 was a great example, wasn't it? He did really terrific. So you can see how just being a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=623.4s	623.4	 preemptive, we likely prevented a third outburst from him. Notice the minor tension on the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=630.2s	630.2	 here. I'm having to get a little bit more physical than I'd like with Chop and that definitely isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=634.6s	634.6	 ideal, but it's the lesser of the evils in order to prevent a full-on reaction. At least that's what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=640.1s	640.1	 my thinking is here in the moment. That's what we mean by management, desensitizing your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 managing them. These are critical things when training a dog like Chop. So far we're implementing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=650.6s	650.6	 three major strategies to hopefully make gains on improving Chop's behavior. We're giving him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=655.1s	655.1	 extended time to observe his environment and calm down desensitization. And we're also relying on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=660.6s	660.6	 management that is having him on a leash and restricting his access to everything that he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=665.0s	665.0	 wants to go after. That way we can keep him from fully acting on these natural impulses he has.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=670.6s	670.6	 This will also go a long way to counter conditioning him. That is, if he can have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=674.2s	674.2	 calm, good experiences while in this environment, he'll be more likely to repeat that in the future.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=679.0s	679.0	 I really break these down and give you good examples in my second book if you're interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=683.1s	683.1	 in learning more about this. If your dog is kind of like Chop, I would definitely recommend that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=687.5s	687.5	 book for you. I'll have a link below. Look at him smelling the trail. The dog just walked right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=691.6s	691.6	 through here, right? That also gives him some satisfaction. That is a good idea. Let him check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=695.8s	695.8	 out the dog kind of indirectly. I've never done a training session here, but you can see how easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=701.0s	701.0	 it is to adapt to your environment. We found this patch. There's a trail going around us,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=706.7s	706.7	 so we get consistent exposure. There's two more dogs coming up over here. There's three over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=711.8s	711.8	 Now this is going to be a bit more challenging, but you know, what if he just sits and chills?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 Let me see. Good man. So he's fixating here. Let me see if I can get him over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=724.2s	724.2	 What? Yeah, good man. Good boy, Chop. I'm learning a lot about Chop's working distance out here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=732.4s	732.4	 You'll remember that is his responsiveness to me when there is a dog or any distraction a certain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=738.6s	738.6	 distance away from him. The idea is to not overwhelm him right now, but I also want to be proactive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=744.2s	744.2	 and escort him away before dogs get too close to us, at least wherever possible. And I'm not really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=748.8s	748.8	 giving him treats right now either. That's because he wouldn't take them anyway, even though he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=753.0s	753.0	 generally loves treats. He wouldn't find that reinforcing out here in this particular context.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=758.2s	758.2	 Instead, his environment is much more interesting to him and the environment can be a great way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=763.4s	763.4	 provide positive reinforcement to your dog. If you can show them how to interact with it in an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=769.3s	769.3	 acceptable way, easier said than done. So, I mean, this is evidence. The more time we're spending
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=775.5s	775.5	 here, we can correlate that with less of an outburst. Of course, I am more focused on managing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=779.8s	779.8	 him than I was before, probably. I'm definitely starting to get a better idea of when Chop will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=784.6s	784.6	 react. It definitely is more likely when dogs are closer, it seems. But the thing is he seems somewhat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=790.7s	790.7	 unpredictable at times. Sometimes he's completely fine. Other times he completely loses his mind.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=796.6s	796.6	 All right, let's go back. Come on. Yep. Noticing the dogs, again, acting appropriately here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=806.9s	806.9	 Thrilled with this. And since I'm out here to give him exposure, I'm going to practice just walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=812.2s	812.2	 back and forth here as well, letting him check out all the smells out here. Let him get familiar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=819.1s	819.1	 with the environment a little more. Keep him moving along. So, so far the reactions we've seen,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=825.7s	825.7	 I believe, have been limited exclusively to dogs. But we're also setting ourselves up for success,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=831.3s	831.3	 aren't we? I mean, we're not right on top of distractions. We've made sure that we can more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=835.0s	835.0	 easily distance ourselves from things that cause him overwhelming excitement. Got it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=842.1s	842.1	 Yeah, that's it. Yes. Want a treat? He's not taking treats, but he is interested in his environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=850.6s	850.6	 So again, I'm going to try to use that to my advantage by giving him increased access to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=856.1s	856.1	 what he wants when he's being chill. We have a dog over here coming up. So see how he does while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=861.5s	861.5	 we're in motion, because the idea really, I'm not trying to say never be excited when you see a dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=867.7s	867.7	 What I am trying to say is when you become excited, get used to paying attention to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=872.9s	872.9	 so that I can escort you away from that thing causing you to be excited. So here you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=880.3s	880.3	 he's doing well. This is interesting because Chop is mildly fixated, but he's also not acting out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=886.2s	886.2	 towards this other dog. It might be best to keep him moving though, in order to deter an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=891.3s	891.3	 extended fixation on this dog, which might be more likely to lead to another negative reaction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=897.0s	897.0	 Come on. Good boy. That's right. Remember, I'm using the word good to mean you're on the right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=902.5s	902.5	 track. A reward is probably coming if you keep trying. And I'm using the word yes to mean you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=907.3s	907.3	 on the right track and you get something great right now. Now I'm going to let him look at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=912.5s	912.5	 dog from a farther distance. I don't want to deny him totally. It's not reasonable to keep those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=917.9s	917.9	 experiences from your dog, but it just so happens that when we are farther away, he can take in and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=923.6s	923.6	 experience that dog in a more appropriate way. You see what I mean? This fur, are you kidding me?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=929.4s	929.4	 Oh my gosh. It's just blowing in the wind. We have to give him a bath, but we have to brush him for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=934.9s	934.9	 five hours first. Thank goodness for vacuum cleaners. I like how he's leaning on me right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=940.4s	940.4	 Seems to be a trusting behavior. Look at that guys. Good man. Just trying to keep him calm. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=949.6s	949.6	 Good boy. That's right. You know, I hope he's slowly starting to get the picture. Just because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=954.6s	954.6	 we see a dog that looks like fun, we can't just play with them. In fact, we can never play with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=958.4s	958.4	 them in this particular context. Chop is starting to do pretty well. I'm going to take him on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=963.0s	963.0	 little walk. The thing is though, part of it involves a walk through a narrow path in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=968.0s	968.0	 pedestrian area. Now it's just a short bit, but I'm definitely going to have to keep good control
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=973.8s	973.8	 of this dog. I mean, look at this. As we continue, his extreme pulling picks right back up. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=980.9s	980.9	 what I was worried about. We've got another dog approaching during this short part of the walk and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=985.5s	985.5	 we have nowhere to retreat to. And if Chop does have a full on reaction using all of his muscles,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=991.9s	991.9	 I'm going to have to make sure I'm really focused on keeping him under control. I'm going to keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=996.3s	996.3	 him really close while we pass this dog as efficiently as we can. He does have a mild
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1003.5s	1003.5	 reaction. I'm not trying to train him in this moment. It's not reasonable to try to teach him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1008.4s	1008.4	 how to behave here and now. That's an example of what you do when you're kind of limited, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1013.8s	1013.8	 You're on a narrow path. You can't really pull off. You fall back on management. So since he's over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1019.0s	1019.0	 threshold, I'm going to fall back on management. And over the coming weeks, I'll be focused on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1023.5s	1023.5	 training him to behave when he comes in close proximity to dogs like this. But for now, again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1028.7s	1028.7	 my goal is to make sure I keep control and manage him and keep this from getting worse.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1033.5s	1033.5	 This is kind of scary because there is definitely no shoulder in here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1038.0s	1038.0	 Let's go through this tunnel. Come on, buddy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1039.6s	1039.6	 Man, it's like he's a sled dog or something. Leash pulling is the worst.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1057.0s	1057.0	 Get all that energy out, buddy. Get it all out. I love how I'm saying that to an animal who's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1065.0s	1065.0	 basically optimized to run tens of miles every day while dragging a sled.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1072.0s	1072.0	 OK, we found a spot to have a nice change in scenery. You're just so fun to look at.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1079.7s	1079.7	 So I still have roughly a little over one third remaining on my timer to give him three hours
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1086.7s	1086.7	 in this environment. A lot of people will raise the point that they may not have three hours,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1092.8s	1092.8	 but you don't have to do it every single day. You know, you find a time on the weekend to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1097.6s	1097.6	 to the park. If you're really trying to make rapid progress, try to do it three times a week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1101.9s	1101.9	 somehow after work. Maybe you can combine it with your work somehow. Try to get creative.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1107.7s	1107.7	 He's doing really well. You know, you got kids and people playing on the playground equipment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1111.6s	1111.6	 There's some dogs over here to distance three of them. Wow. And he's looking at those. This is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1116.4s	1116.4	 really good distance. This reactivity, I think, is manageable as long as we know what to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1121.6s	1121.6	 My hope here is that after having this long afternoon out here, getting all of these different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1127.5s	1127.5	 experiences, he's going to go home. He's going to sleep wonderfully. All of that information is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1132.3s	1132.3	 just going to really seep into his brain, and he's going to wake up tomorrow and feel like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1138.2s	1138.2	 he's starting to get it. We'll see. I am so sore right now. You think this is too much headroom?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1148.0s	1148.0	 So I'm just sitting here while lying here after our shoot today, and I'm thinking,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1155.8s	1155.8	 I don't know how Zach is going to do this because I'm exhausted just from following them around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1160.2s	1160.2	 We did a nice long walk, and he was a lot to handle at the park. I really have to say. It was clear he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1166.5s	1166.5	 was really overstimulated. But when I look back on it, I'm really proud at how Chop and I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1171.6s	1171.6	 walked the line. There was some testing to see how close he could be to other dogs before he just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1176.8s	1176.8	 started barking excitedly, but we kind of got to know each other pretty quickly in that regard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1181.3s	1181.3	 Even though there were some downsides to the training lesson, I got a lot of data that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1186.2s	1186.2	 going to help me move forward. His outbursts were surprising to me because I'd seen him be a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1191.5s	1191.5	 curious, but as he's coming out of his shell now, the thing that I'm probably most worried about with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1196.5s	1196.5	 him is feeling his full strength during one of these reactions as we test later on. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1202.9s	1202.9	 to do my best to avoid those, of course, and I'm going to do a lot of prep work, but there will come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1207.9s	1207.9	 a time where we have to go into the real world to see how he does so that I'll have the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1212.7s	1212.7	 accurate information when it does come time to adopt him out. Not to mention that I'm still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1218.1s	1218.1	 optimistic that Chop and Inertia will be able to coexist together in his time with us, but after
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1223.2s	1223.2	 today, we might have to do more work than I expected before we get there. I'm still extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1228.6s	1228.6	 looking forward to what he is mixed with. I feel like he's definitely got to be part Malamute. What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1233.7s	1233.7	 do you guys think? At first glance, you might think he looks German Shepherd because of the way he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1237.8s	1237.8	 sheds and his coloring, but huskies can easily have this coloring, especially when they're mixed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1243.1s	1243.1	 and huskies shed really probably worse than German Shepherd dogs do. If it does turn out that he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1248.6s	1248.6	 part Malamute, they are a really ancient breed, so that would be kind of cool to know that I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1254.6s	1254.6	 working with very old genetics. So far, he really catches on quick. Most dogs do as long as you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1261.4s	1261.4	 patient with them and just explain to them what you're asking of it and keep things easy for them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1266.2s	1266.2	 Sometimes the trick though is really finding the type of training that you have to do that is easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1271.6s	1271.6	 enough for a dog just so you can get traction. Don't underestimate how small you have to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1276.6s	1276.6	 sometimes to get started with training your dog new things. And next time, we're going to see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1282.2s	1282.2	 Inertia and Chop do on their second meeting. Inertia and I have developed a really special
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1286.8s	1286.8	 bond over the last couple of years, and I don't want to let her down. This is reality dog training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1293.2s	1293.2	 Go to trinon.com slash Zach to get 50% off a two-week trial of Nom Nom. Subscribe and click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wUBQ_GljXk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=1299.0s	1299.0	 the bell. Follow us on Instagram and TikTok and get both of my books too. We'll see you guys next time.
