https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This park is located in the more populated part of Anchorage, which is why I came out here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 I just wanted to get a good sample of how he behaves with all of these different variables.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=10.0s	10.0	 He cannot be doing that when he sees dogs. He wants to go up to every dog he sees. He seems
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=14.9s	14.9	 like one of those. Leash pulling is the worst. He is a wild animal, this dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=21.5s	21.5	 This is Choc, a wild Alaskan street dog with minimal human contact. His manners leave a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=31.4s	31.4	 to be desired. We are in Alaska to get this man ready for his new life, if we can survive it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=42.6s	42.6	 This is Reality Dog Training. Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=52.5s	52.5	 In episode one, you met Choc, the wild Alaska dog, for the first time. He's been with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=59.0s	59.0	 just over 24 hours now. I'm incredibly excited about today because it's my very first day of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=65.4s	65.4	 training with him. There were some ups and downs yesterday and it is time to start teaching him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=70.5s	70.5	 So we may as well start with teaching him sit because he doesn't even know that, if you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=75.0s	75.0	 believe it. Constantly on my mind is that I have never worked with a dog with this particular
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=80.2s	80.2	 background. So I think this is going to be interesting for all of us. So nothing really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=86.5s	86.5	 special here in the way that I'm teaching him to sit. I'm just going to lure him into position.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=90.9s	90.9	 Usually this method is pretty effective, particularly with larger dogs. But honestly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=95.2s	95.2	 I'm having kind of a tough time with Choc here because he just wants to keep backing up instead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=99.5s	99.5	 of kind of plopping into a sit. That's okay though. We're going to keep working on it and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=103.6s	103.6	 we'll adjust our approach for him. So I'm just looking for his butt to go down. Yes! Just because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=111.3s	111.3	 his legs bent ever so slightly there is why I said yes. The fact that he's just following his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=117.2s	117.2	 treat really well there is good. Yes! Did you see that? Did you see how his butt like went an inch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=123.5s	123.5	 or two? I'm using his meal this morning instead of regular treats because I want to be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=128.2s	128.2	 reward him so much today because we have a lot to teach in a short period of time. Yes! This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=134.6s	134.6	 definitely a sign that he's had very limited interactions with humans. Yes! I like how he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=140.0s	140.0	 spinning there. That's pretty cool. That gives me an idea for later. So over the course of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=145.5s	145.5	 first few lessons, I expect Choc to start learning what the word yes means. I'm going to be using the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=151.3s	151.3	 word yes to mark behaviors that I like that Choc does. And every time I say yes, I'm going to follow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=157.0s	157.0	 it up with something that he values in that particular moment. See how he's tuning out there?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 I'm going to let him check out too and come back as he pleases. Good boy. I'm going to reward him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=166.0s	166.0	 for coming back to me there. Yes! For a dog that's never sat for a human before, it definitely looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=171.4s	171.4	 like he's catching on quickly. I'm encouraged by this. I'm hoping this is going to be a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=175.7s	175.7	 sign that he'll be controllable when we go out in public later today. So I'm going to try and shrink
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=185.2s	185.2	 my training bubble and see if that helps. Yes! Let me see if we can get some momentum. Yes!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=196.5s	196.5	 Okay, that's his first sit lesson. He still doesn't completely understand the concept and I don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=201.9s	201.9	 to push him too much because like I said, there's a lot I want to cover with him today. It looks like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=206.6s	206.6	 this bark eats is very effective so far in terms of motivating him. Bark, one of my favorite companies,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=212.5s	212.5	 has just come out with a very new, innovative dog food. So they use a new technology to coat this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=219.0s	219.0	 food with live probiotics, which have a number of health benefits for dogs. So he's getting healthier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=224.4s	224.4	 as I train him. They deliver pre-portioned packets to your door every month that's actually personalized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=230.5s	230.5	 and portioned for your dog by real veterinary nutritionists. Everything bark does is always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=236.8s	236.8	 super high quality and this food is no exception. If you want to give it a try, you'll get 60%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=242.8s	242.8	 off your first order using my special link. barkeats.com slash Zach George. I'll have details
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=248.5s	248.5	 in the description. So rather than trying to teach him one thing at a time and get everything perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=253.8s	253.8	 before moving on to the next, I find it really practical to teach them a little bit of each thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=260.6s	260.6	 as we move on to keep them super simple. So the next thing I want to teach him is how to look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=266.5s	266.5	 me, how to leave something alone, and how to understand his name. And the thing that all of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=270.6s	270.6	 those have in common is that there are ways to get attention onto me, particularly when he becomes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=275.4s	275.4	 distracted in public. So I'm doing my best to try to lay the best foundation I can before having him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=281.4s	281.4	 organically encounter exciting things so that at least he has some history of communicating with me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=290.2s	290.2	 Holding up a treat right up here. Yes! When I have eye contact, I'm going to say yes and give him a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=295.7s	295.7	 treat. Yes! He followed my finger right up to my eyes. Look at that. Let's see. Yes! Now I'm actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=304.6s	304.6	 not even using a treat. He's following my hand so quickly because some of the prior lure training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=309.2s	309.2	 we did. Do you see how one thing builds on another? It's a dangerous risky attitude to be like, well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=314.4s	314.4	 I just want to train my dog X, Y, or Z, but don't really want to train them their general basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=319.8s	319.8	 overall. So look at me is looking good. I'm going to start saying here to me, look at me. So in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=324.7s	324.7	 general, I like to use the word here to just request his overall attention in a variety of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=330.2s	330.2	 contexts. It's not exactly look at me in this case because I'm more after attention more so than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=336.6s	336.6	 proper eye contact. So while I agree this is a bit of an abstract definition, here can be a great way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 to encourage your dog to pay attention to you. Here. Yes! Keeping the treats nice and random.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=350.1s	350.1	 Some of it's his meal. Some of it is bark treats. He's following that signal. Great. And no treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=355.4s	355.4	 here. So in other words, I want him here. Yes! Then I'm going to get the treat. See that? So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=362.4s	362.4	 that really gets him paying attention to the signal. Or I might want him just to reply or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=366.8s	366.8	 understand the verbal. So let's put my hands behind my back this time and I'll say here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=372.9s	372.9	 Yes! Let's see. I don't know if he really registered that, but let's see. Waiting for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=378.1s	378.1	 him to look right into my eyes. To come back to me and to look up at me. And I'm going to say here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=382.1s	382.1	 without a hand signal this time. Here. Yes! There we go. So just being a little extra patient. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=393.8s	393.8	 Yes! I'm loving Chop's overall body language right now. You can see he's not even on leash or anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=400.6s	400.6	 and I love how he's voluntarily staying near me and interacting with me so enthusiastically.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=405.8s	405.8	 This is a great way to build trust. He really seems to be enjoying this lesson, which is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=411.4s	411.4	 to be vital to my future training with him. He's got to love working with me. Here. Yes! All right,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=419.0s	419.0	 good. So I feel like he's starting to understand the concept of here. This is going to become more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=423.1s	423.1	 evident when we're doing things like leash training and training in public where I go to get his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=427.4s	427.4	 attention. But we'll see how that goes later on. I feel confident he's starting to get the concept
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=431.8s	431.8	 here. But I also want him to know that his name means he's going to get something great as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=437.1s	437.1	 Let's do a variation of the game we did yesterday, right? We threw the treat. He's going to go and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=441.0s	441.0	 get it. And he looks up at me. Chop! Come! Yes! Very good. So Chop and come are kind of synonymous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=457.0s	457.0	 for our purposes, at least right now. You know, there may be a time when I want Chop to me and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=461.6s	461.6	 pay attention up here or whatever. But right now, I think as a default, when he hears his name,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=466.3s	466.3	 I want him approaching me. Chop! Good. Chop! And so as he follows me. Chop! Chop! Yes! Good man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=483.5s	483.5	 You can see Chop is just another word we can use to get his attention in different contexts. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=489.7s	489.7	 I'm going to throw some treats out there, let him chase it. So essentially, I mean, he hears Chop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=493.8s	493.8	 he thinks, oh, I get a treat. And over time, we're going to phase that into mean, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=497.4s	497.4	 Chop, pay attention to me or Chop come here or whatever. Chop! Yes! Okay, now we need to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=507.5s	507.5	 him his first impulse control training session, which is everything in dog training. If you ever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=513.0s	513.0	 want to teach your dog how to not do something that they want to do, but you'd prefer they not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=518.8s	518.8	 do it, then they have to know this next exercise. This whole session you've been seeing, when I put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=523.8s	523.8	 the piece of food in front of him, he goes and he takes it, right? I mean, every time he does it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=529.0s	529.0	 But I want to teach him how to only take that treat with permission. Watch how easy this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=534.2s	534.2	 to train. I'm just going to close my hand. When he gives up on it, right? What am I going to say?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=539.4s	539.4	 I'm going to say the magic word. Yes. Yes. And then I'm going to reveal it because he was being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=546.5s	546.5	 less. No, that's my finger. I want to verify that he has it within him to lay off the treat when he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=553.8s	553.8	 clearly wants to get it. Yes. There we go. Yes. So I'm looking for that microsecond where he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=564.3s	564.3	 actually not even going for it. Yes. You see that? Now let's see if he, with my hand closed still.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=571.7s	571.7	 I do cover how to teach all of this in both of my books as well. I'm going to have links below to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=575.8s	575.8	 those. You can also get an audio form too. Yes. See that? This is so much more than just teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=583.1s	583.1	 him to leave a treat alone. This is just one of the easiest versions that I can think of, of him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=588.5s	588.5	 leaving alone something that he really wants. So that's why I start here. In the future, this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=593.3s	593.3	 foundation of self-control will theoretically help us teach him to leave much more enticing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=599.6s	599.6	 things alone, like other dogs on a walk. But I have a feeling that we have a lot of work to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=605.9s	605.9	 to get to that point though. Instead of keeping my hand closed now, I'm going to present the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=610.8s	610.8	 treat to him directly and see if I can catch him succeeding for just a moment. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=617.5s	617.5	 Yes. Yes. I put that treat right in front of him. You could see in his eyes the restraint he was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=622.2s	622.2	 using. Yes. Looking for that restraint. When he goes for it and pull, when I pull away, he's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=627.8s	627.8	 Whoa, I didn't mean to do that. I want to keep it near. Yes. So I'm looking for that one second
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=636.2s	636.2	 of restraint. Let's put him back here. Here we go. And look, see here's another way to lure him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=641.8s	641.8	 I'm trying to get him in a nice position for the camera. And that's a nice way to lure him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=645.4s	645.4	 And I'm going to put him in a nice position for the camera. And that's coming in quite handy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=649.3s	649.3	 Look at this right in front of him. Yes. Good. Now let's just introduce the word to him. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=656.2s	656.2	 that he's starting to understand the concept, leave it. Yes. Good. I like how he glanced at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=664.2s	664.2	 When a dog offers you their attention with a treat right in front of them like that, as if to say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=668.6s	668.6	 Hey, am I doing the right thing? That's a good sign that we are really starting to connect with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=673.8s	673.8	 each other. It's amazing what a training exercise as simple as this can evolve into over the next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=680.2s	680.2	 several weeks. This right here is a magical moment for Chop. I mean, here we have a dog who's grown
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=686.6s	686.6	 up on the streets, basically in the wilderness. And in this moment, I really feel like I'm starting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=692.2s	692.2	 to see that shift in his expression, that depth of his intelligence. When I first met him, we were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=698.2s	698.2	 completely detached. And now I'm starting to see that glimmer of mutual communication starting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=704.1s	704.1	 happen. It's like he's wondering, am I a dog or something? Why is this guy over here so interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=709.3s	709.3	 in communicating with me? I love sharing these very special hard to catch moments on camera with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=714.6s	714.6	 you guys, because these are the moments that we look for to see our dog truly beginning to break
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=721.3s	721.3	 Leave it. Yes. Good man. All right, so leave it's looking good. Now that he's leaving it alone while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=729.8s	729.8	 it's in my hand, let's see what happens when I drop it. Leave it. Whenever we change a variable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=736.4s	736.4	 when teaching our dogs, it's bound to confuse them the vast majority of the time. So while I'm still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=743.0s	743.0	 teaching him leave it overall, in the first instance, my hand was closed, then it was open with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=748.4s	748.4	 treat exposed. And now I'm dropping it. That's three variable changes. And all three of those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=753.5s	753.5	 versions required him to use his logic a little bit different each time. And it doesn't just stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=758.9s	758.9	 here. This trend is going to continue throughout his training. After all, seeing a dog at the park
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=763.8s	763.8	 might prove to be a lot more exciting than a piece of kibble in front of him in my living room. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=769.2s	769.2	 a hunch. So let's make it a little bit easier by setting it down, covering it up. Yes. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=778.2s	778.2	 man. Did you see how he's like, what do I have to do? Chop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=789.3s	789.3	 Here. Yes. Did you see how he instantly looked up? I was able to get his attention off there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=794.8s	794.8	 I want to really reward that. I want to keep that going. I'm trying to really get into this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=800.2s	800.2	 groove where I can drop a treat in front of him and then get his attention on me. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=805.8s	805.8	 Here. Yes. It's just a good way to play hot or cold with your dog. So leave it here. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=818.5s	818.5	 For added measure, I'm going to see if I can guide him away from that kibble sitting on the floor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=823.1s	823.1	 with another kibble. Good. Yes. That's calm. Putting motion to it definitely makes it harder,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=832.2s	832.2	 but I'm really trying to get him to think. Here. Yes. Okay. Pretty good lesson for now. Still long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=840.0s	840.0	 ways to go, but I feel much better knowing that he's starting to learn this concept of leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=844.9s	844.9	 something alone. Pay attention to me. Come when called. Sit. I mean, all of that pretty quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=850.2s	850.2	 here, but not very polished at all, but a good start. I'm encouraged. It's one thing to be in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=856.8s	856.8	 here, but the second I step out there, I'm stepping into a bear preserve. There are bears
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=863.0s	863.0	 in our driveway all of the time. This is one of the most hazardous environments that I've ever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=868.2s	868.2	 trained a dog in. Why can't anything be normal in Alaska? The dogs are huge. There's bears in my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=873.7s	873.7	 driveway. What is happening? I'm super anxious to get out into public with Chop, but before I go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=880.0s	880.0	 a public park with him, I want to make sure that I have some at least basic leash skills with him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=885.2s	885.2	 So we're out here in the driveway and I want to see how well he does because it's probably going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=889.8s	889.8	 to be easier for him to learn here in my driveway than it is in a public park. So I want to know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=895.7s	895.7	 what I'm working with here. Interesting. I see how I said here. He didn't immediately pay attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=902.8s	902.8	 to me like he was doing just a moment ago. By now, you'll probably understand that when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=907.2s	907.2	 outside, things are way harder than when you're inside. Why don't we shape this more? Because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=912.4s	912.4	 right now, I want him to check things out. So I don't want to just be like, pay attention to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=917.1s	917.1	 pay attention to me. He's really enjoying the various sites of the neighborhood here and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=921.7s	921.7	 looking at some things in the distance. So what I'm hoping is going to happen is he's going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=925.9s	925.9	 satisfy his curiosity and then he's going to glance up at me and then I'm going to say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=931.0s	931.0	 yes, I'm going to give him a whole handful of kibble. He had managed to just waiting for him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=937.5s	937.5	 to do it on his own. It shows him that he really organically made that pleasant reward appear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=944.4s	944.4	 before his eyes. Yes. Good man. Go. That was perfect. Yes. So let's see if it happens a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=954.5s	954.5	 bit quicker this next time. Yes. Right there. He's like, let's just let this play out for a sec.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=964.0s	964.0	 Yes. I know what you're thinking. He's being too good right now. Zach, come on. Couldn't you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=973.5s	973.5	 got a challenging dog to work with? Admittedly, this is a good start, but remember we are only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=979.2s	979.2	 in my driveway and there are very minimal real world distractions around. My objective here is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=985.6s	985.6	 to really get him looking up to me and paying attention to me while we move around now outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=991.5s	991.5	 in the driveway as opposed to inside. Like we talked about. Yes. Here. Yes. In this environment,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1002.1s	1002.1	 he's really finding his food reinforcing, but for him, this environment isn't exactly challenging.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1013.7s	1013.7	 Can you hear a neighbor's dog barking in the background?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1016.1s	1016.1	 Yes. Good. And I just want to make sure that I can easily get him away from a distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1025.8s	1025.8	 he might encounter in the wild. Yes. Sit. I've never been so happy to see a dog sit in my life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1036.2s	1036.2	 Here. Yes. Good. And see there, I was able to redirect that forward momentum. I'm liking that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1046.7s	1046.7	 Yes. Oh, wow. I loved how he was rubbing against my leg on that one. That was cool. Let me address
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1053.4s	1053.4	 this because I know it looks like I'm just constantly shoving treats down his throat here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1057.6s	1057.6	 but keep in mind two things. First, this is his daily meal and perhaps more importantly, the whole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1062.2s	1062.2	 reason we rapid fire treats like this in the beginning of brand new behavior is so that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1067.0s	1067.0	 can communicate in no uncertain terms that what he's doing right there is definitely working for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1072.7s	1072.7	 both of us. Don't worry. This isn't something that happens forever. Rather quickly, we would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1077.3s	1077.3	 begin rewarding for three seconds of good behavior, then 10 seconds, then eventually 10 minutes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1083.0s	1083.0	 but let's not get ahead of ourselves just yet. I find too, like with people who are new to teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1088.0s	1088.0	 dogs, you're really tempted to default to no, because you want to let your dog know what not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1094.9s	1094.9	 to do. But really, if you can just kind of tip the scales 180, you know, and look at it a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1099.8s	1099.8	 bit differently and try and say yes, 80% of the time, or even 90% of the time if you can. So let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1106.8s	1106.8	 your training live around the word yes, I like that. And don't miss too many opportunities to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1113.3s	1113.3	 acknowledge when your dog is just doing great. I mean, there's no harm in letting them know when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1117.5s	1117.5	 they're on the wrong track from time to time as we did with leave it just moments ago inside,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1122.6s	1122.6	 but find those opportunities to let them know when they have done the right thing. Just trying to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1128.6s	1128.6	 what happens if I pick up the pace. Does that get him a little more engaged? I don't know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1139.3s	1139.3	 Yes. Good man. Okay. All right, good. I feel good about that. It's good to know that at least in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1147.8s	1147.8	 this relatively distraction free environment, he's pretty receptive to learning. But I'm really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1153.1s	1153.1	 curious to get a baseline as to how Chop behaves in an average park where there are a number of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1159.6s	1159.6	 dogs, people, kids and other unanticipated stimuli. And while he gets an A plus for his performance so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1166.7s	1166.7	 far today, experience tells me that this next part could be potentially very rocky. He cannot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1173.5s	1173.5	 be doing that when he sees dogs. Training can go off the rails with so many different dogs when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1180.0s	1180.0	 take them to a place like this. This is reality dog training. Check out bark eats and get 60%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1186.4s	1186.4	 off in the description below. Follow us on TikTok, Instagram and Facebook. We'll see you in the next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCDayvimYws&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1192.0s	1192.0	 episode.
