https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This is a video that you and I have wanted to make for months now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 Thank you guys so much. The feedback on the George series was incredible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=10.7s	10.7	 And this format that we've been doing for the last couple of years has been working really well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 doing these deep dives into training a dog over many weeks to see the kind of results we get.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=19.2s	19.2	 I love that you guys are loving it so much. And our next one, well you tell me if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=23.9s	23.9	 still loving it after that because that is the closest I have come to retiring from dog training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=29.5s	29.5	 I think. But right now I think we really have to talk about this huge news in the dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=34.3s	34.3	 world that's recently happened. This is probably the biggest news in my dog training career. I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=41.8s	41.8	 been training dogs I think 17 years. Like I don't know the exact year. Has it been that long? I know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 Oh my gosh. There's a new position statement as it relates to dog training from the American
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 Veterinary Society of Animal Behavior. Yes, AVSAB. AVSAB, that's right. So we're probably going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=59.0s	59.0	 calling them AVSAB quite a bit throughout this video for short. Amongst dog trainers,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=64.3s	64.3	 I think today's video is going to be pretty controversial. We really want to thank Nom Nom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=68.4s	68.4	 for sponsoring this episode. Really good product. There's a lot of ways to feed your dog a quality
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=73.0s	73.0	 diet. Nom Nom is one of the freshest options available and it meets the delicate nutrition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 standards of dogs, something that is shockingly hard to get right on your own. Their nutrition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=83.1s	83.1	 experts prepare fresh meals with all of the right nutrients for your dog and they automatically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=88.3s	88.3	 ship them right to your door. So literally all you have to do is open up a packet and give your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 dog an amazing, very healthy meal. As someone who really appreciates when things are quick and easy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=98.6s	98.6	 I absolutely love this. If you think your dog would love Nom Nom, you can get 50% off a two-week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=104.6s	104.6	 trial at my special link, trinom.com slash Zach. I'll have that link in the description. My true
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=110.3s	110.3	 hope when making a video like this is that I'm hoping that we as a dog training community,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=115.9s	115.9	 especially here on YouTube, because that's where I live, that we can really get together and try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=121.6s	121.6	 to understand this news better. What does it mean for various dog trainer influencers out there?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=127.0s	127.0	 Yeah, this is the dog training world. I did not know until I entered it is such an active community.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=135.0s	135.0	 Like you guys really go to town about talking about stuff. However anyone trains dogs, I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=140.1s	140.1	 anyone in this profession is very passionate about dogs and their well-being and we all love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=146.3s	146.3	 them. That's why we get into dog training, right? It would be even more amazing if some of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=150.7s	150.7	 influencers out there in the dog training space, people like Cesar Millon, Victoria Stilwell,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=156.3s	156.3	 Emily Larlum, Kiko Pup. Oh, Kiko Pup, yeah. We love her. And of course our buddy Trevor from Doggie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=162.0s	162.0	 Dojo, Upstate Canine K9. One Ian from Simpawtico would like to know what Nando, Joe and Dean from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 School of Canine Science. Yeah, they're cool. Beckman, Balabanov, McMillan, McCann. You sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=174.5s	174.5	 know a lot. I keep thinking your list is exotic. I know it's a huge amazing community. There's so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=180.6s	180.6	 many people that I think are going to want to talk about this. A lot of different perspectives out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=185.1s	185.1	 there for sure. I know I am forgetting a ton of you that I talked to out there, so forgive me for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=189.8s	189.8	 that. And if there's any dog trainers that you guys respect out there that you would like to talk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=193.7s	193.7	 about this, let them know. I think the thoughts on this would be very valuable. Now many of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=197.0s	197.0	 might not have heard of the American Veterinary Society of Animal Behavior. It's because their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=200.7s	200.7	 target audience is vets, veterinarians and professional behaviorists more than just the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=206.0s	206.0	 general public. Most veterinarians don't specialize in animal behavior. Very, very good point. There is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=211.9s	211.9	 a subset of vets that definitely specialize in the science of animal behavior, more specifically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=219.4s	219.4	 dog behavior in our case. So basically vets who don't specialize in behavior and are a member of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=225.0s	225.0	 this organization look to them to get guidance on training dogs. Then they can check with a trusted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=230.8s	230.8	 organization like this to see what the latest cutting-edge science has to say. So they just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 want to make sure that they have all of that information available so that veterinarians
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=240.5s	240.5	 around the country and world can advise their clients with an informed opinion. And it's worth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=245.4s	245.4	 noting AVSAB members have to meet a very high bar in terms of education to be a part of this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=250.5s	250.5	 organization. Members of AVSAB are board certified veterinary behaviorists, research scientists,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=256.8s	256.8	 veterinarians with a special interest in behavior, certified applied animal behaviorists,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=261.9s	261.9	 doctors of veterinary medicine with behavior specialties, PhD in animal behavior or related
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=267.0s	267.0	 discipline. It's, I mean... Impressive, yeah. I mean these are people who understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=273.3s	273.3	 science. So this isn't an association of professional dog trainers or anything like that. These are among
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=279.4s	279.4	 the most educated, dedicated professionals who are focused on how animals learn. I've taken a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=285.8s	285.8	 animal behavior classes and I can tell you that I was surprised how intricate it is. It's a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=292.1s	292.1	 intricate science. It is. And challenging to study. I know there's a lot of setup here. We're about to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=298.4s	298.4	 get into it right now, but I do want to preemptively say that I know a lot of people in our industry,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=303.7s	303.7	 the dog training world that is really are skeptical of academia because it is not the real world and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=311.1s	311.1	 things and we're going to actually talk about that later. It's a legit criticism. Absolutely, sure. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=315.8s	315.8	 particularly love stuff like this because Bri and I are significant science enthusiasts, but also I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=321.7s	321.7	 get a lot of experience on the ground, so to speak, with dogs working with them every day trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=327.3s	327.3	 implement a lot of the methods that we learn from people like this. To be clear, not a scientist,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=334.8s	334.8	 just an enthusiast. I'm going to do my best to be accurate here, but I'm hoping some of our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=339.4s	339.4	 science-minded people will be involved. We're going to be using the term aversive a lot today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=344.3s	344.3	 How do we mean aversive for purposes of this conversation? Dog training people usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=348.9s	348.9	 use aversive to refer to unpleasant physical corrections or training consequences that a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=353.7s	353.7	 dog would want to avoid or escape. I'm sure the term aversive tools will come up a time or two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=358.7s	358.7	 as well, and by that we're referring to things like choke chains, prong collars, electric collars,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=363.7s	363.7	 also slip leads count. Basically, anything used in a way that causes a dog to feel either physically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=368.8s	368.8	 unpleasant or emotionally unpleasant. But it's always tricky in animal behavior, isn't it? Because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=373.8s	373.8	 you can never know what a dog is feeling. We can think about the traditional example. If a dog pulls,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=379.3s	379.3	 one training strategy is to pop the leash really quickly to discourage them from pulling. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=384.0s	384.0	 would be an aversive method. Another example, using squirt bottles when dogs are barking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=390.0s	390.0	 I shouldn't laugh about that. It's not nice to dogs, but I must confess, really early in my career,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=396.7s	396.7	 I used to do that. So definitely- You did?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=399.4s	399.4	 I did. I know it's a bombshell. When?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=402.2s	402.2	 Maybe 04. Like in training classes?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=404.8s	404.8	 Yeah, like in training classes. Oh my God. Are you serious?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=407.3s	407.3	 I wouldn't do it today, but you know, that's learning for you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=411.0s	411.0	 So I feel like very briefly, you should explain what the position statement has been,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=417.8s	417.8	 you know, broadly up until now, because it's made some changes, minor changes over the years, but this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=422.6s	422.6	 is dramatic. So what was it before? My understanding of their original position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=426.8s	426.8	 was basically that you should try positive reinforcement first with training, make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=432.3s	432.3	 that you're addressing any underlying emotional issues to the best of your ability, making sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=438.0s	438.0	 that you're controlling your dog's environment, be sure that you're limiting their access to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=442.8s	442.8	 things that might cause them to behave undesirably, and try counter conditioning methods to change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=447.6s	447.6	 their association. If you tried all of those in good faith and you felt like they weren't working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=451.4s	451.4	 well enough, that is when it may have become appropriate for a trainer to use aversives,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=458.3s	458.3	 potentially. So that has been their position as long as I can remember my dog training career
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=463.5s	463.5	 when it came to their advice on animal welfare. The first time I read that, my honest first thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=468.9s	468.9	 was that sounds a lot like what most people call balanced training. Yes, and most balanced
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=474.2s	474.2	 trainers that I know really do their best to have a heavy emphasis on positive reinforcement training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=480.8s	480.8	 Yeah, that's true. It's like mostly positive reinforcement, right? But then aversives,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=485.0s	485.0	 in some cases. Right, exactly. And just to try and be as open and transparent of my biases as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=491.1s	491.1	 reasonably possible, because that's important when making a video like this, I subscribe to the idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=498.8s	498.8	 of using the least aversive method that's likely to work. But personally, I've never crossed into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=504.6s	504.6	 using choke chains, prong collars, or electric collars. Many trainers have found value in using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=508.8s	508.8	 aversive tools and methods and they would be justified based on that former criteria of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=515.6s	515.6	 AVSAB. And that's why this new statement is such a bombshell in our industry. We're going to unpack
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=522.4s	522.4	 this in detail in this video, but just listen to these four sentences. Based on current scientific
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=529.8s	529.8	 evidence, AVSAB recommends that only reward based training methods are used for all dog training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=535.3s	535.3	 including the treatment of behavior problems. Aversive training methods have a damaging effect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=540.0s	540.0	 on both animal welfare and the human animal bond. There is no evidence that aversive methods are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=545.9s	545.9	 more effective than reward based methods in any context. AVSAB therefore advises that aversive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=552.0s	552.0	 methods should not be used in animal training or for the treatment of behavior disorders.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=556.6s	556.6	 Their position right now is no choke chains, no prong collars, no electric collars for any reason
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=564.2s	564.2	 at all ever. I mean, and I say that like I'm shocked by this because scientific thinkers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=574.9s	574.9	 do not use such terminology loosely. Think about it. All those trainers who sometimes use aversive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=581.9s	581.9	 tools were justified under the prior position statement, but under this new one, they are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=589.2s	589.2	 in violation. AVSAB is telling their clientele, like your veterinarian, that they should not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=596.2s	596.2	 recommend the use of those tools or trainers who advocate for them in any known situation. So if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=602.5s	602.5	 you're a vet, you're part of this organization, you have a trainer that you've been working with,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=606.2s	606.2	 maybe because dog training isn't your thing, they use choke chains, prong collars, e-collars,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=611.8s	611.8	 you would be at conflict with AVSAB. How does that change things right there? This is something that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=619.1s	619.1	 I know a lot of people are taking really seriously, ourselves included, because it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=623.8s	623.8	 affecting a lot of people, their livelihood. I mean, it's affecting dogs, but it's affecting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=629.0s	629.0	 trainers too. That's what I'm really hoping to examine here because a statement like that can,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=634.4s	634.4	 like you said, affect people's careers. A huge percentage of dog training facilities out there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=639.6s	639.6	 in the world are really using these tools every day in their business. Again, to be upfront,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=646.2s	646.2	 I am partial to not using aversive corrections in training. And also, despite my best intentions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=652.2s	652.2	 I do resort to them from time to time, as you've seen in my videos before. Speaking from personal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=656.7s	656.7	 experience, using positive reinforcement has helped me do incredible things with my dogs in the past.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=662.2s	662.2	 And you've seen, like in our hundreds of videos that we have on the channel, how positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=665.6s	665.6	 reinforcement sometimes works with most of the dogs. But, and this is the important thing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=673.0s	673.0	 I can't know what my results would have been had I been using different methods like choke chains,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=678.2s	678.2	 prong collars, or electric collars. Maybe I would have done even better. I mean, that's what we can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=683.2s	683.2	 know from my personal story. Way to critically think, though. Thank you. And really, no one should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=688.6s	688.6	 take my anecdotes or my stories serious. They don't matter any more than anyone else's. That's why we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=695.0s	695.0	 have to have scientific study. I mean, that's the value of science. It's the best tool we have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=701.9s	701.9	 to getting at what's true. Yeah, science is awesome. The AVSAB statement has a ton of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=707.0s	707.0	 studies reference. There are, I think, 21. We read them all, but then every one of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=712.0s	712.0	 also references studies. It's, yeah, it's been pretty interesting. And not all of them come to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=717.7s	717.7	 the same conclusion by any means. There's a ton of information in those studies, but there are a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=723.2s	723.2	 of red flags, too. And so we felt like rather than just sharing the position statement, we wanted to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=728.2s	728.2	 make this video. We spent a lot of time giving these studies a critical eye. We really tried to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=734.7s	734.7	 be objective. Of course, no one can do that like scientists can. We also tried our best to find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=741.0s	741.0	 what other dog trainers, other professionals are saying about this. And we wanted to go over some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=745.6s	745.6	 of those objections, the main ones that we at least were able to find. And I think we should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=750.0s	750.0	 talk about how this is going to change the way that I train dogs moving forward, too. It's not,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=754.2s	754.2	 you know, it's just a four page document is about four pages. Yeah. Right here, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=758.0s	758.0	 and so you can look at it yourself. We're going to hit some of the highlights. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=761.8s	761.8	 AVSAB position statement on humane dog training. Evidence supports the use of reward based methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=767.4s	767.4	 for all canine training. AVSAB promotes interactions with animals based on compassion,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=773.2s	773.2	 respect and scientific evidence. Yeah, sounds pretty sound to me. Pretty good rule of thumb.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=779.1s	779.1	 Based on these factors, reward based learning offers the most advantages and least harm to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=784.6s	784.6	 learner's welfare. Research supports the efficacy of reward based training to address unwanted and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=789.3s	789.3	 challenging behaviors. There is no evidence that aversive training is necessary for dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=794.4s	794.4	 or behavior modification. Yeah, just to be clear, there's nothing here claiming that using aversive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=800.6s	800.6	 training methods are ineffective. I mean, they definitely are saying that they work. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=805.5s	805.5	 just no advantage known for using aversive training methods and tools. Even, I guess to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=813.6s	813.6	 even more carefully scientific, it's just that there's not evidence that aversive training is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=819.0s	819.0	 necessary for dog training or behavior modification. Great distinction. Well said.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=823.9s	823.9	 Reward based techniques should be used for teaching common training skills as well as to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=827.9s	827.9	 address unwanted behaviors. The application of aversive methods, which by definition rely on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=833.4s	833.4	 application of force, pain or emotional or physical discomfort should not be used in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=839.3s	839.3	 canine training or for the treatment of behavioral disorders. Acknowledged. So for no reason,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=844.6s	844.6	 not aggression, not anything. When dogs have serious aggression issues, it's a desperate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=852.4s	852.4	 situation. And of course you try whatever you think will work the best. And so that's a common
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=857.4s	857.4	 place where people have gone down that list of things that ABSAB said were good to do and said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=863.4s	863.4	 this dog is still, I'm still having a lot of problems. Right. Maybe aversives, but now here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=868.2s	868.2	 this is a dramatic about face from that. As the role of companion animals has evolved,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=872.5s	872.5	 their welfare and the relationships between humans and animals have become increasingly important.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=877.4s	877.4	 It is understood that animals are sentient and should be treated with respect and compassion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=882.6s	882.6	 I like that. I do. I think that trainers who use aversive methods entirely agree with that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=888.2s	888.2	 statement as well. It's hard to imagine anyone who works with dogs that wouldn't truly feel those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=893.8s	893.8	 words. Learning manners and skills can help animals to coexist harmoniously with people in the home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=899.0s	899.0	 and in society. The techniques used to teach those manners and skills can strongly affect an animal's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=904.6s	904.6	 future behavior and emotional wellbeing. Training methods are most effective when they focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=909.6s	909.6	 teaching the animal what to do rather than punishing them for unwanted behaviors. Common
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=914.3s	914.3	 training issues such as jumping, barking, and house training can be managed by arranging the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=919.4s	919.4	 environment appropriately and reinforcing desirable responses. More serious behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=924.4s	924.4	 concerns such as aggression, anxiety, and fear require a treatment plan that includes environmental
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=929.4s	929.4	 management, behavior modification, and in some cases, medication. Environmental conditions that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=935.4s	935.4	 drive the behavior should be addressed, like managing their environment. I've heard that one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=939.2s	939.2	 before. That's a big one. And the dog should be set up to make appropriate responses. Management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=946.4s	946.4	 can include avoiding situations that lead to the unwanted behavior and ensuring the safety of all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=952.0s	952.0	 involved. Agree 100% but I think every dog trainer on earth will agree. Easier said than done.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=961.4s	961.4	 Doesn't mean we don't try to adhere to that standard though because I like that. Many methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=967.0s	967.0	 of changing behavior in dogs are effective. That's an important point to remember. A lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=971.3s	971.3	 methods work if your measure is does the dog do the thing that you asked. Positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=978.2s	978.2	 isn't the only thing in the world that accomplishes that. However, the evidence-based veterinarian or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=983.3s	983.3	 behavior consultant should be concerned not just with what's effective but with what does the least
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=989.0s	989.0	 harm and produces the best long-term results. Current literature on dog training methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=993.9s	993.9	 shows a clear advantage over word-based methods over aversive-based methods with respect to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=998.8s	998.8	 immediate and long-term welfare, training effectiveness, and the dog-human relationship.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1003.6s	1003.6	 So they're talking about the bond, they're talking about the effectiveness, the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1008.2s	1008.2	 welfare of the individual dogs there. Like those are all components that need to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1014.4s	1014.4	 taken into account when you're teaching dogs. Is that basically what you're hearing here?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1018.3s	1018.3	 Yes, that is what I'm hearing. Exhaustive analyses of dog training literature have been completed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1023.8s	1023.8	 and are available for review. When we first heard that, we looked at the citation to be like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1027.8s	1027.8	 how exhaustive can this be? And it wasn't even that the 21 studies cited, it's about 21, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1033.4s	1033.4	 Yeah, no, it is 21. It was 21 studies, right? There they are. And we reviewed those, but it's like we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1038.8s	1038.8	 just kept going down rabbit holes and rabbit holes like it is because they would reference other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1043.1s	1043.1	 studies. So even though there's 21 referenced here, I understand that that encompasses quite a bit of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1049.8s	1049.8	 good science. And a bit of science that can do better too. So fair point, fair point, very true.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1056.6s	1056.6	 What was particularly interesting if you're the type of person who likes to just get to the bottom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1060.3s	1060.3	 line is that many of those studies, they're studies of studies, right? To try to kind of see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1066.8s	1066.8	 where things are trending, how dogs are behaving over with many different parameters, I guess.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1071.8s	1071.8	 Yeah, it's like the more data you have, the better of a trend you can see over time. Those studies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1076.6s	1076.6	 cover all kinds of things, but a lot of it was looking at animal welfare as it relates to dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1082.1s	1082.1	 training. So are the dogs feeling stressed was a big question that was asked a lot. And they also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1089.6s	1089.6	 compared the actual effectiveness of aversive based methods to positive reinforcement methods.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1095.6s	1095.6	 Comparing different training methods is very interesting. Even though so far research is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1100.1s	1100.1	 indicating that aversive based methods seem to generate stress in dogs. There is still a lot more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1107.3s	1107.3	 research that needs to be done before we can draw a strong conclusion. I imagine one of the hardest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1112.3s	1112.3	 things to control for in these studies is consistency with the person because we're not robots.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1119.7s	1119.7	 I think a lot of us need to consider that as well. Yeah, that's true. And dog training is very hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1125.5s	1125.5	 as a non dog trainer who has occasionally tried it. It's not easy for someone to just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1132.2s	1132.2	 suddenly do it right. And so they need to make sure that they're selecting the right people who
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1136.3s	1136.3	 are representing the training methods being tested appropriately. In recent years, too,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1141.4s	1141.4	 there have been a lack of studies that directly compared positive reinforcement only methods with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1149.5s	1149.5	 aversive methods. But that's really changed in the last several years, too. Also, a lot of the studies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1156.5s	1156.5	 are either with working dogs like military or police dogs or laboratory dogs, a lot of beagles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1163.1s	1163.1	 And so it would be better if we could have more studies with companion dogs, people's actual pets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1169.9s	1169.9	 that are living in their homes, which is complicated to study and lots of different breeds, not just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1174.6s	1174.6	 beagles and malinois and German shepherds. Right, exactly. Like it's really hard to establish good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1180.2s	1180.2	 control of experiment with people's dogs. So a lot of these are also based on survey studies as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1185.5s	1185.5	 to try to gather information from different dog breeds, which, you know, isn't always ideal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1192.0s	1192.0	 But yeah, yeah, that's true. It's a great place to start that you can very often start to see a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1197.4s	1197.4	 trend if you can get enough data, I would think. Yeah, it's a good place to start. But that is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1202.0s	1202.0	 one of the main challenges with studying dog training scientifically is that if you can have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1210.1s	1210.1	 a really controlled experiment where you're you know what's happening to the dog 24 seven,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1215.0s	1215.0	 they live in a lab, obviously that's no one's pet. It's difficult to simulate real world conditions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1219.8s	1219.8	 and many of these there's still some pretty amazing science out there, even with all of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1227.0s	1227.0	 considered. I mean, of course, ABSAB are the ones who cited that study that summed up a lot of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1232.8s	1232.8	 objections as well. And so they're aware of them. They wrote this position statement with that in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1237.8s	1237.8	 mind. No matter what your feelings are on this topic, it's so important to understand the current
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1243.3s	1243.3	 limitations of what we understand so that we can make it better and move forward. So we felt like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1248.9s	1248.9	 that would be a good thing to talk about. Yeah, things can always change. This is just currently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1252.5s	1252.5	 where we are right now. But new evidence makes us think about things differently very often.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1257.5s	1257.5	 I hope YouTube doesn't have a limit on description length, because I have a lot of links for you guys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1263.1s	1263.1	 So we looked at all of those studies referenced in the ABSAB document and many, many of the studies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1268.7s	1268.7	 referenced by those 21 studies. And then we still kept looking because there was a glaring lack of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1276.2s	1276.2	 studies that supported the opposite viewpoint that aversive training was preferable. And a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1282.1s	1282.1	 of people believe that. And so we wanted to find more science that supports it. I was really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1286.8s	1286.8	 surprised. We did find some compelling studies, though. We definitely did. We're going to cover
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1290.6s	1290.6	 them because I thought our time would be better spent rather than just going over the studies that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1296.4s	1296.4	 we have a bias towards, I guess, or I'll speak for myself that I have a bias towards. I thought it was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1300.4s	1300.4	 really important to delve into some of the best scientific cases for using aversive methods.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1306.5s	1306.5	 I think we found two that were very commonly referenced out there as evidence by many to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1314.6s	1314.6	 I guess, support the use of using aversive methods and tools.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1318.2s	1318.2	 Yeah, these would be the two most frequently cited that we were able to find.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1321.4s	1321.4	 We definitely don't want to be in our echo chamber. If I am wrong, I want to know it. I want to know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1327.0s	1327.0	 where my flaws are. That's really what I try to do. So the first one is a study that's been going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1332.6s	1332.6	 around since 2014, and it compares the effectiveness of reward-based training and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1338.0s	1338.0	 aversive training for off-leash recall around livestock and other dogs, which is really hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1344.1s	1344.1	 Yeah, those are distracting. The study found that the e-collar training didn't necessarily provide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1350.0s	1350.0	 better or worse results than positive reinforcement training. Yeah, it was basically a tie in training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1356.2s	1356.2	 Right. Effectiveness. So then what about the welfare of the dogs?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1360.5s	1360.5	 Right. They did based on the body language and cortisol, the stress hormone. You guys know about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1365.4s	1365.4	 cortisol? Yeah, well, cortisol is associated with stress, both good stress and bad stress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1371.5s	1371.5	 The best way we know so far to try to guess if a dog might be feeling stressed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1376.1s	1376.1	 which is a hard thing to guess, is to look at a combination of their body language. Do they look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1382.4s	1382.4	 like they're looking stressed? And their cortisol, which they can test from their saliva or their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1387.4s	1387.4	 blood. Yeah, well, stress hormone. Because stress isn't always bad. Yeah. So for example, if they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1392.1s	1392.1	 hunched over, their ears are back, their tails in between their legs. Yeah, it's still a correlation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1397.3s	1397.3	 because we can't know how dogs are feeling until we can read their minds someday. One of the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1402.0s	1402.0	 frequent objections of the study was that the trainers were not using the e-collars properly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1408.7s	1408.7	 according to modern e-collar trainers. That's true. And actually, it's weird because it's true
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1415.5s	1415.5	 that they didn't use them properly. But it's also true that that is a misrepresentation of the study.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1422.1s	1422.1	 I mean, here's the thing. Phase one of the study was to make sure that they knew how to record the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1427.7s	1427.7	 study. So they wanted to test their data collection method. So basically, they got not necessarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1432.9s	1432.9	 skilled dog trainers or e-collar trainers. They wanted to make sure that they were able to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1437.5s	1437.5	 the observation properly. Right. So the trainers and dogs in that little preliminary test didn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1443.5s	1443.5	 matter. But those trainers we just talked about were not involved with the key part of the study.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1450.0s	1450.0	 So they went out and got actual trainers who used e-collars in accordance with the manufacturer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1455.5s	1455.5	 Manufacturer approved, basically. Yeah, it was trainers that were really experienced
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1461.1s	1461.1	 and knew how to use it exactly as recommended by manufacturers. Right. So we can get a good test.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1467.2s	1467.2	 Ironically, this is one of the things that we really loved about this study was that they did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1471.4s	1471.4	 find e-collar trainers who knew what they were doing. So in the end, this study found a similar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1477.6s	1477.6	 conclusion to what we've seen before that the aversive corrections were effective, but they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1482.0s	1482.0	 weren't more effective. It was basically a tie with aversive and positive reinforcement. However,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1488.3s	1488.3	 the stress relations, the hormone and the body language score was worse for aversive. And so.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1495.0s	1495.0	 Okay. All right. So got the results, but animal welfare was in question.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1500.2s	1500.2	 I think it's important just really quick to clarify that just because their welfare is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1505.4s	1505.4	 compromised, that doesn't mean these dogs are getting abused. We're not saying that. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1509.1s	1509.1	 the researchers are not saying that either. It's worth mentioning too, this can be an emotional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1513.8s	1513.8	 issue for many people who are passionate about teaching dogs. I just want to reiterate that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1517.8s	1517.8	 everyone is doing what they feel is best for their dogs. And I think as long as we're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1523.2s	1523.2	 all open-minded in good faith and we consider the data, that that's the best we can do. And some of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1529.4s	1529.4	 us may arrive at different conclusions based on that data, right? And that's why the science never
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1535.1s	1535.1	 ends. That's true. That's why this was so interesting because it's really, it's a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1539.7s	1539.7	 concerted effort to get a lot of data together and say, well, what's going on right now? What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1543.8s	1543.8	 should we do moving forward? We did find one study that seems to show that actually there are lower
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1549.6s	1549.6	 stress levels when you use an electric collar. What about this? What's that about? So the study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1554.7s	1554.7	 compared the results of three different types of corrections, an E-collar correction, a prong collar,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1561.4s	1561.4	 a pinch collar correction, and a preconditioned quitting signal, which is something I had never
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1567.0s	1567.0	 heard of before. Well, I mean, apparently they're defining quitting signal as something like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1571.7s	1571.7	 leave it alone. So if your dog is distracted by something and you say, hey, leave it, but you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1576.0s	1576.0	 don't pull back on them, then that's how they were measuring that. Some people have taken some issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1582.0s	1582.0	 with how they taught that quitting signal. So in the experiment, they had dogs go into a heel and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1587.5s	1587.5	 then a distracting person, another person entice them to break their heel basically. Right. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1594.2s	1594.2	 then when they broke their heel, they would be corrected in one of three ways. Right. So in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1599.1s	1599.1	 study, they compared two types of positive punishment where you're applying a type of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1602.7s	1602.7	 punishment. Prong collars and electric collars were used and then the quitting signal was used
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1608.7s	1608.7	 as well. So the conclusion of that study did say that E-collar training was more effective,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1615.4s	1615.4	 less stressful. It was like the opposite. Wait, wait, more effective and less stressful than what?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1622.2s	1622.2	 Positive reinforcement? The quitting signal is actually not positive reinforcement. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1627.1s	1627.1	 negative punishment. The study acknowledges that as well, but they didn't test against positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1631.8s	1631.8	 reinforcement. Unfortunately, it would have been interesting. Right. So while interesting, this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1636.7s	1636.7	 study is one that I saw as one of the most frequently cited as comparing aversive punishments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1644.0s	1644.0	 and positive reinforcement. And I think it's a misrepresentation in this case, or I guess it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1649.8s	1649.8	 So after looking at all of this evidence, some questions are bound to come up and some really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1654.2s	1654.2	 good ones. If positive reinforcement training is so great, why hasn't everyone just abandoned their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1658.7s	1658.7	 tools overnight in favor of this? True. And furthermore, why aren't all of these dogs perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1665.1s	1665.1	 now that we understand how they learn so well? I mean, we've seen plenty of examples over the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1669.8s	1669.8	 years of dogs who've been trained with aversive methods, choke chains, prong collars and do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1674.8s	1674.8	 amazing things. I mean, look at the military, look at law enforcement. Very often they tend to use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1680.2s	1680.2	 those aversive tools as well. Yeah, there's no denying that. That's true. Yeah. And they do a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1685.1s	1685.1	 of great things, although that is starting to change. There are definitely military and law
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1689.8s	1689.8	 enforcement dogs being trained with reinforcement methods. Yeah, links below. So again, aversive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1695.9s	1695.9	 methods clearly work in some capacity, even though it seems like the data is telling us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1701.3s	1701.3	 that positive training is more efficient. I don't think it's always easy. There's a lot of skill
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1708.3s	1708.3	 when you're doing positive reinforcement training, because you kind of have to look at the world a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1712.4s	1712.4	 little bit differently. You now have to be aware of what's surrounding your dog more rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1717.0s	1717.0	 focusing on your dog. And you have to be prepared to modify the environment. And so it's not always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1723.8s	1723.8	 the most intuitive way to think about teaching dogs, I think. Right. Well, it isn't until it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1730.0s	1730.0	 I think Bree and I agree on the fact that that's always our goal on this channel to try and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1735.3s	1735.3	 demystify a lot of modern behavior. We want to try to make it easier for you guys to understand and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1742.2s	1742.2	 actually just practice naturally in your everyday life. The bottom line of this new position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1747.6s	1747.6	 statement is that if you've tried everything in your training bag of tricks and well, everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1753.8s	1753.8	 except for aversive punishments, I guess, and none of that is working and you don't know what else to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1758.2s	1758.2	 do, the next step is no longer to try aversive corrections. Now you need to consult another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1765.5s	1765.5	 trainer that's versed in science based methods and see if they have a different idea. Yeah, which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1770.6s	1770.6	 is a thing that, yeah, I've seen you actually do kind of a lot. So that's good. I mean, you, I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1775.6s	1775.6	 good luck on trying to learn how to train dogs without doing it. Right. You've got to definitely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1780.2s	1780.2	 learn from other people's experiences in the spirit of science. I'll give you a good example.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1785.8s	1785.8	 Early in my dog training career, I had a super cringy aspect to teaching stay. Right. And so I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1793.8s	1793.8	 put this out there on the Internet because it was kind of like my intuitive way of teaching stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1798.9s	1798.9	 What would you do? Like if a dog was going to break stay, I was really quick to physically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1803.2s	1803.2	 intervene and prevent a dog from breaking stay. So you would like grab them. Yeah, grab them or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1808.8s	1808.8	 prevent them. And even though my intention wasn't to create any type of fear within the dog when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1814.2s	1814.2	 corrected them, the fact was that method could very easily cause a dog to feel fearful, which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1820.2s	1820.2	 counterproductive to training. Gosh, I don't remember how the video was received, but I do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1824.1s	1824.1	 remember Emily Laurelum. A lot of you guys will know her as Kiko Pup. Yeah, she's awesome. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1829.0s	1829.0	 fantastic. Absolutely. And I mean, hundreds of thousands of subscribers, by the way, all of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1833.7s	1833.7	 should subscribe to her channel. She's an extremely valuable resource in the dog training community,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1839.0s	1839.0	 for sure. And so, you know, she's like, OK, maybe you should look at it like this. I found that to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1846.0s	1846.0	 be hugely helpful at that point in my career and learned a lot of things from her over the years.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1850.9s	1850.9	 So nice. I didn't know that story. That's really great. For some of us, it's a lot more intuitive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1856.6s	1856.6	 to wait for your dog to react or do something you don't like to then punish it. Right. That's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1861.9s	1861.9	 I think, human nature. Like everything's fine. But if you mess up, I'm going to let you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1866.1s	1866.1	 that you didn't do the right thing. And so the science is revealing that actually the opposite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1872.1s	1872.1	 of that is true. It's well made. Let me say that better. But despite our best intuitions, there are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1879.6s	1879.6	 people out there who are uncovering ways to teach dogs to learn at least as fast, if not faster,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1887.6s	1887.6	 with less welfare concerns, which is pretty exciting. Right. A lot of you know that I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1892.3s	1892.3	 dealt with reactive issues with inertia, who's back there in the past. And Grisha Stewart gave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1898.9s	1898.9	 me a lot of really helpful tips that have helped me make a lot of progress in inertia's reactivity.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1903.9s	1903.9	 So, yeah, I'll have her links down there, too. She's really cool. Definitely. And so I've certainly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1907.8s	1907.8	 benefited from learning from other scientific based trainers and improving my methods over the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1913.4s	1913.4	 years, too. So for about the past two years in particular, we've really been focused on doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1918.6s	1918.6	 these deep dive training sessions, spending several weeks with a dog trying to implement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1924.7s	1924.7	 positive reinforcement methods. Yeah, like two years ago, we were just like, put the mistakes in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1928.7s	1928.7	 put it all in. Let's see how we work through them, because that's where the value is. That's what I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1932.8s	1932.8	 wish was around when I was learning how to train dogs. I mean, I'm the first to admit it's a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1936.1s	1936.1	 easier said than done. Some dog trainers will say that using aversives have worked really well and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1942.3s	1942.3	 serve them well, while other people will say positive reinforcement training has given them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1946.5s	1946.5	 the best results they could ask for. When you genuinely feel that what you're doing is working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1951.3s	1951.3	 extremely well with the dogs that you work with, it's really understandable that you wouldn't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1956.1s	1956.1	 to shut down the work that maybe you've potentially put years into crafting, you know, to just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1962.3s	1962.3	 suddenly change your training strategy. I know that I applaud anybody who's skeptical of any of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1968.6s	1968.6	 these studies or anything. I mean, that's, it's important to be skeptical of things, but we can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1973.9s	1973.9	 just stop with our skepticism, I don't think, anyway. So I say this just to remind everyone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1978.9s	1978.9	 that anecdotes, my own included, are no substitute for scientific research. As quick as some of us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1985.8s	1985.8	 dog trainers are to point out that science experiments are much different than the real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1992.0s	1992.0	 world, we've got to remember that these researchers are exceptionally trained in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=1999.0s	1999.0	 science of observation. We need to give the scientific community a ton of thanks for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2005.6s	2005.6	 trying to give us some type of answer to these difficult questions. And by the way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2009.7s	2009.7	 AFSAB isn't the only organization that has come to this conclusion. The British Veterinary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2014.0s	2014.0	 Association, Australian Veterinary Association, American College of Veterinary Behaviorists,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2019.8s	2019.8	 there's a lot. I feel like I shouldn't read you the guys the whole list, but I'll put them down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2022.8s	2022.8	 below. I mean, yeah, so it's really interesting that the best and brightest among us in the field
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2030.1s	2030.1	 of studying animal behavior are coming to new and different conclusions as time goes on, you know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2037.9s	2037.9	 By no means should any of us think that this is the final answer, because that's not what science
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2042.8s	2042.8	 is. I definitely I tried to be as skeptical as I've ever been about anything in preparing for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2048.2s	2048.2	 this video, because truly, it's important that as I go on, I reevaluate things has anything changed?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2054.2s	2054.2	 When was the last time I reevaluated my training methods? So that's, that's what this has done for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2060.2s	2060.2	 me. Basically, I just try to look and learn from people who are way smarter than me. I think that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2066.2s	2066.2	 is the best life hack ever. I know that we will continue to be as transparent as we know how to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2072.5s	2072.5	 when we're showing you how to train dogs. And by all means, if you have any scientific studies that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2077.6s	2077.6	 you think may have been omitted from anything we've talked about today, or or or if you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2083.4s	2083.4	 any new studies that you come across in the future, put them in the comments. This can be a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2087.0s	2087.0	 resource for me. I'm just kind of being selfish, honestly. So I've been asking myself as we've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2091.6s	2091.6	 doing this research, okay, is there anything that I'm going to change about the way that I train dogs?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2096.4s	2096.4	 And I think that I'm going to try even harder to implement positive reinforcement in my training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2104.3s	2104.3	 I think I really need to be much more conscious of aversive consequences that come about when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2109.8s	2109.8	 I'm working with a dog, whether I intend it to happen or not. And I know at the beginning of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2114.1s	2114.1	 the video, we kind of listed some names and everything. Those are just some of the people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2117.8s	2117.8	 that I thought of kind of off the top of my head, I guess, who I know have a lot of influence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2122.2s	2122.2	 on YouTube in particular, because that's why I'm so focused all the time. I'm curious to know if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2127.1s	2127.1	 anyone out there in the dog training community is considering changing any of the things they do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2132.0s	2132.0	 And I'm curious about what those things might be. If so, in light of this new compilation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2137.4s	2137.4	 of scientific evidence, a lot of stuff to go over in the description for sure, we can talk about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2142.6s	2142.6	 more of this moving forward if you guys like this kind of thing. But of course, we are focused
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2146.7s	2146.7	 on our next series right now, which is oh, gosh, check out our sponsor to nom nom. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2153.8s	2153.8	 go to Trinam dot com slash Zach to get 50% off the two week trial. Get a copy of my books too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2159.6s	2159.6	 I talk about a lot of these topics and cite a lot of studies in both of my books. I'll have links
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2164.5s	2164.5	 below. Tick tock, Facebook, Instagram, you know the drill. We'll see you in the next video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bkulCnZpQMU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=188&pp=iAQB&t=2169.4s	2169.4	 Tell us what you think. Bye.
