https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 It kind of hit me real hard today. This is day six of 14. I have eight days left with her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=10.6s	10.6	 I've never trained Moira in public until today and I'm going to show you what it's like when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=15.4s	15.4	 train a dog like Moira in public for the first time. This is Moira and I'm Zach George. Moira,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 the German Shepherd dog, is looking for a home and I've only got two weeks to teach her how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=25.7s	25.7	 behave so that someone will be willing to adopt her. Okay, we have a situation and as you can see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=31.0s	31.0	 it's not going to be easy. She jumps excessively, lunges at almost any distraction. Moira loves to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=38.5s	38.5	 bark and she definitely pulls on leash and uses her teeth to interact with the world a little too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=44.4s	44.4	 inappropriately. I am feeling a little bit overwhelmed. If that was a dog, she would be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=49.0s	49.0	 like, I'm not paying attention to you, I'm paying attention to that. I will train this dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=55.8s	55.8	 Look at this loose leash right now. Shake! Yes! Much better. Yes. Look at me. Is she getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=62.3s	62.3	 trained? This is reality dog training. The first thing I want to go over today is how I'm using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=70.6s	70.6	 Moira's morning breakfast to continue to refine her training. Let's see how she likes stuff. Whoa,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=76.2s	76.2	 boy! Okay, we got some training to do. Sit, please. Incompatible with jumping. That's why we ask for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=82.9s	82.9	 sit. Come here. Sit. Good girl. Stay. She now knows stay. Since she's so amped up, I'm going to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=91.6s	91.6	 stay for duration. As long as she holds that sit, she continues to get a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 When she jumps, the food goes away. It doesn't work for her. I think we need to put her into a down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=101.4s	101.4	 there and we need to hold her there. Do you see how I'm rewarding one after the other here? That's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=106.3s	106.3	 rapid rate of reinforcement. When you have a dog that's going a million miles an hour like Moira,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=110.9s	110.9	 you really sometimes have to fire them one after the other like that in order to keep them in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 position. But don't worry, they'll get better with that. This is just how you get traction in a way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=119.7s	119.7	 that keeps your dog enthusiastic and upbeat. I love that she's offering the down stay right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=124.9s	124.9	 so I'm going to go ahead and give her the rest of her meal now. Some of you may already know this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=128.7s	128.7	 but all dog food is not the same. I promote Solid Gold because it's really super premium dog food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=134.3s	134.3	 I love the ingredient list and there are so many super foods in here like oatmeal, ground flax seed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=139.6s	139.6	 and pumpkin. And they make some really innovative supplements as well. It's good for their skin and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=143.8s	143.8	 coat. Every one of Solid Gold's products are top notch. All of you can get 30% off select Solid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=149.3s	149.3	 Gold products by going to my special link solidgoldpet.com slash Zach. I'll have a link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=154.6s	154.6	 below. Someone wants to do some training, I think. Ouch! What? What's this? Good morning. Hello,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=164.4s	164.4	 get it. Today, I'm hoping to teach Moira how to stay in critically life-saving situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=169.5s	169.5	 I'm also hoping to make some progress on her behavior in public, which last time I checked,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=175.0s	175.0	 needed some work. But first, I got to get some of this energy out. I mean, half the reason dogs act
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=180.2s	180.2	 that way is because they haven't had enough exercise. So good girl. There we go. I like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=190.5s	190.5	 I have that lead on her. When most dogs are learning to play fetch, they like to play keep away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=194.1s	194.1	 So this long lead keeps me in relative control of the session. So if she starts to play keep away,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=199.2s	199.2	 I can just reel her in. See how she wasn't interested when I just rolled it? That's my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=205.5s	205.5	 own fault. I got to spark her interest. I got to precede that roller with a game of tug.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 Good. Her take is looking great. By take, I mean she grabs it by the rim. Let go. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=217.1s	217.1	 Good. Look at that. Very good. She made an attempt to get it by the rim. Yes. Good. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=226.8s	226.8	 It's all coming together, folks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=230.8s	230.8	 Trying to get it by the rim. Easier said than done. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=236.6s	236.6	 Good. Here. Nice return. See how she didn't veer off that time? She's anxious to run to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=241.6s	241.6	 presumably because I'm willing to play tug with her. And she's an addict for tug.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=246.0s	246.0	 Looks like she's found another toy she's interested in. So maybe the frisbee will have to wait. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=250.6s	250.6	 see. She loves these plush toys. Good. All right. Let go. Let go. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=261.4s	261.4	 Good girl. Come on. And really, at this point, I'm not going to be too picky as to what she wants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 to play fetch with because she's fetching. She's getting rid of that energy. It's going to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=269.9s	269.9	 her much easier to train, hopefully. Good. Yes. Good girl. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=281.8s	281.8	 Yes. Let go. Getting better, but could still use some improvement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=289.7s	289.7	 Good girl. And I want to give her a satisfactory amount of tug here so she feels satisfied.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=295.7s	295.7	 Easy. Sit. Easy. Sit. Good girl. Stay. And okay. Go. So every once in a while, I want to stop and see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=307.8s	307.8	 if I can sneak in some practice on a skill, like sit and stay. But in general, I'm trying to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=313.3s	313.3	 this fun for her because she's got plenty of school to go through today. Stay. Yes. Go. Like how she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=320.6s	320.6	 showed restraint that time and wasn't jumping all over me. That's just looking great. As into this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=325.6s	325.6	 toy she is, I still want to be sure that I can get her attention on me over the toy. So let me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=330.0s	330.0	 practice that real quick. Here. Yes. Go. Rewarding for the glance. There are several opportunities,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=340.1s	340.1	 even when you're exercising your dog, to lightly practice their training. I mean, these are really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=344.3s	344.3	 the moments where your dog truly gets trained. Good girl. Yeah. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=350.9s	350.9	 Just try to zoom in a little bit on let go there. That's all I'm doing just to try and improve it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=354.9s	354.9	 Really let her know that letting go for a fraction of a second isn't going to cut it anymore. I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=359.0s	359.0	 just want her to leave it alone until I say it's okay or I throw it. Yes. So I'm satisfied that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=366.7s	366.7	 Moira has had enough exercise today. This has been a good training session. The next thing I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=370.7s	370.7	 want to work on is teaching her how to stay in a potentially life-threatening situation before we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=376.1s	376.1	 go out into the real world, into public with this crazy German shepherd dog. So we're going to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=382.6s	382.6	 our first official training session out in the public where the environment isn't controlled,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=387.4s	387.4	 but I want to do one last impulse control training exercise that is so important and that is stay at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=393.5s	393.5	 the front door. I want to mention safety is number one here. We don't have a fence in our front yard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=398.4s	398.4	 at this house. So I've got her clipped to my belt. Let's see what happens if we were just to open the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=403.4s	403.4	 door. I mean she walks right out. There is no effort to show restraint. She's like awesome. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=408.7s	408.7	 want to get out there and see what it's all about. That's no good. What if a car was driving by?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=412.8s	412.8	 What if she saw a squirrel running across the road? I mean you can see how that could turn out very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=418.0s	418.0	 badly for her. So knowing how to stay at the front door is really important. Moira, see what I mean?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=424.4s	424.4	 I can't even get the door closed without her trying to go out. I know I'm anxious to go out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=427.7s	427.7	 there with you too, but I mean on the side note, I mean just look how focused she is on the outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=432.8s	432.8	 Look at the ears. They're not facing me. They're facing straight ahead. She wants to go out there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=437.2s	437.2	 and see what's going on. I point this out only to make it clear how much environment matters. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=443.0s	443.0	 outdoors all by itself is a huge distraction to most dogs. For a young energetic dog like Moira,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=450.4s	450.4	 it's going to be very difficult for her to focus out there. So I'm hoping by the end of this lesson,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=456.1s	456.1	 I can at least get her to hold to sit stay while I open the door. Let's start small. Let's make it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=461.1s	461.1	 easy. Let me get her attention on me. Let me verify that here. Yes. Good. Give her a nibble of some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=468.2s	468.2	 chicken there. See? Just touching it. But see she already walked. I don't like that. I don't like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=472.9s	472.9	 that she's walking towards the door focusing on that. Yes. Do you see what I did? I just touched
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=479.1s	479.1	 the door knob. That's all I did there. I like that she at least came back and looked at me on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=483.3s	483.3	 attempt. Sit. Stay. So now I'll get a letter. No, you know, I want you to draw. Oh, she broke
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=490.9s	490.9	 her stay immediately. So I need to catch her succeeding. Stay. Here. Yes. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=501.9s	501.9	 The idea is that she keeps that butt on the ground. The correction here is simply keeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=506.1s	506.1	 the door closed and withholding the treat. That is all the punishment you need here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=510.0s	510.0	 I use punishment to mean undesired outcome. I can like jiggle it and she's good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=517.3s	517.3	 But the second it opens, I'm having a hard time. So let me be real careful here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=521.8s	521.8	 Yes. Good. She got real interested. Did you see that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=528.9s	528.9	 Here. Yes. Good. She's like, what kind of game is this? Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=534.9s	534.9	 Yes. Did you see that subtle, subtle glance she gave to me there? I love that. Stay. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=549.0s	549.0	 Okay. Good girl. Nice job. Stay. All right. So she's doing well with stay for a period of time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=556.3s	556.3	 She's staying while I open the door and it's a mild distraction of the outdoor air rushing in.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=560.9s	560.9	 Now let me see if I can do another variation of stay while distracted to really proof this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=566.1s	566.1	 overall skill with her. I'm going to have her stay and then I'm going to throw something she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=570.2s	570.2	 really wants. In this case, real chicken out of the front door and we'll see how she does. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=577.2s	577.2	 Stay. Look at me. Good. Stay. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=585.2s	585.2	 Stay. Look at me. Yes. And okay. Come on. Good girl. I'm happy to stop on that note because we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=597.0s	597.0	 have a lot of training today and I don't want to saturate her too early. This is by no means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=601.1s	601.1	 finished. I mean, this is the kind of thing that you do for the next two, three years of your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=605.2s	605.2	 life. Practice 30 seconds at a time of having them sit and stay before going out of the front door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=611.4s	611.4	 So good job. We're going to go in public. I'm going to get her muzzled up just because I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=614.8s	614.8	 want to be extra careful with her because she's very energetic and quick and better safe than sorry.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=620.5s	620.5	 Okay. So we've gotten Moira in the car. The crate I have for her isn't big enough. So I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=627.2s	627.2	 sit back here with her and make sure she's secured. It's just a short ride. You might notice that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=633.3s	633.3	 have changed the size of Moira's muzzle. We made it a little bit bigger. We posted a picture on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=639.8s	639.8	 Instagram and what's the name of that Instagram page? Oh, Muzzle Lock Project. They're awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=644.6s	644.6	 Yeah, the Muzzle Lock Project. So basically we realized that we could get by with a bigger muzzle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=649.4s	649.4	 to accomplish the same thing and it would be even less stressful for her. So we went up one size on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=655.0s	655.0	 the muzzle. Yeah, she's into birds immediately. My understanding is that she's had some run-ins with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=660.5s	660.5	 a certain chicken. So we're hoping to avoid any more harm to additional bird life. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=667.0s	667.0	 because it's kind of a... You know what I mean? No, yeah, people love chickens like their families.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=673.0s	673.0	 I know. I mean, you can bond with a chicken, but you can also enjoy eating a chicken. That's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=677.0s	677.0	 dilemma. Don't put that in. Yeah, I mean, you are feeding her. Just giving her a treat there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=682.1s	682.1	 Conditioning her to be calm in the car. Really getting her comfortable with the muzzle being on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=688.6s	688.6	 her face as she has to move around to try to get the treat as I move it around. See that? Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=695.1s	695.1	 Good girl. I've got to say that behaving while in the car is not something that we need to work on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=703.3s	703.3	 I don't think. It's like we have an incoming call. They can wait. I'm talking to my YouTube audience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=709.8s	709.8	 So she's doing great in the car. I mean, you can see how she's relaxing. We're driving really slow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=715.0s	715.0	 No interstates. The second we arrived and we got out of the car, Moira saw a dog. So of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=720.3s	720.3	 we had to capture that for you guys. Unfortunately, today was not the best day for audio. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=724.8s	724.8	 interesting stuff happened and I'm not going to let a technical difficulty keep me from showing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=729.0s	729.0	 you everything. We haven't even gotten ready for our shoot. There's another dog coming up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=733.8s	733.8	 Real curious to see how she does. I think we're far enough away. She's obviously alert. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=741.7s	741.7	 Let me see if I can just get a glance from her. I feel like if I call her to come to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=745.1s	745.1	 she's too distracted for that. Too early in our training for that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=749.0s	749.0	 Okay, we're up here. Yes. Good. That was actually not bad. I was able to get her attention off of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=756.8s	756.8	 the dog there and that's fine. I'm going to let her look at the dog again. Right now there is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=760.6s	760.6	 loose leash. So at least at this distance with this particular dog, she's not flinching and pulling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=767.9s	767.9	 So we've just arrived here and you can see that Moira is already getting pretty excited. We've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=773.8s	773.8	 chosen this spot for a specific reason to do our training because it's not terribly busy right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=779.6s	779.6	 There's not a lot of people. There's not a lot of birds. My goal here is just to see how compliant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=784.0s	784.0	 she's going to be in a brand new environment that she's never been to before. Right now it's so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=788.9s	788.9	 dead out here. I really don't think we need the muzzle anymore, but I just wanted to be prepared.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=792.4s	792.4	 So I'm going to go ahead and take it off. One thing I want to work on is being able to have her sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=796.0s	796.0	 for just a hand signal without me having to show her a treat. So come here girl. Sit. Very responsive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=803.1s	803.1	 Yes. So now I'm going to go ahead and give her the treat and I'll do this for an extended period
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=807.3s	807.3	 of time. The first several months of training in order to be really consistent. Lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=815.9s	815.9	 Yes. That's good. That's such an improvement. That's very good. So she's doing it with a hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=821.0s	821.0	 signal. I want to start off with some pushups here. That's sit down and up. Here we go. Sit. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=827.0s	827.0	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=829.9s	829.9	 Here I do have to lure her on the stand. She doesn't let me see it. We'll try. Let me give her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=834.6s	834.6	 a fake lure and see how that that's okay. Here. Stay. Yes. So with sit and lie down, she's showing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=842.6s	842.6	 a lot of promise with hand signals, but with stand she's very lure dependent still. Just okay. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=849.2s	849.2	 Stay. Yes. Yes. Here. Okay. See she's very interested in people. There's someone crossing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=858.8s	858.8	 road over here and she's giving them a look, which is fine, but let me practice getting her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=865.6s	865.6	 while she's mildly distracted by someone in the distance. Moira. Here. Look at me. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=874.1s	874.1	 Here. Yes. Good. I'm going to do this for a minute. Here. Yes. Here. Yes. And okay. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=888.2s	888.2	 And now I'm going to let her satisfy her curiosity for a minute. I mean, it was only yesterday that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=892.2s	892.2	 we did her very first leash training session and where did we do it? We did it inside because we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=897.0s	897.0	 wanted to keep it really easy for her. This is a notch up in terms of distractions. Ground sense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=902.5s	902.5	 immediately have her attention. So I'm curious to see how well she does out here. I'm not having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=906.5s	906.5	 the same expectations that I might have at home because I understand the Gulf of Mexico is right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=912.2s	912.2	 here and all of these smells coming off the water must be intriguing to her, the ground sense,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=916.3s	916.3	 but let's see how she does. Okay. It looks like she's getting energetic now. She's starting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=919.9s	919.9	 pull on the leash quite a bit, but remember, since I only have a little over a week with her, my huge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=924.9s	924.9	 number one goal is to be able to get her attention on me around distractions so that I can easily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=930.6s	930.6	 escort her away so she can take in those distractions from a distance where she's still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=935.2s	935.2	 able to keep her composure. That's the thing we're working towards with overreactive dogs like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=940.2s	940.2	 It seems that Moira is really excited about being in this new place with us right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=943.9s	943.9	 and she's behaving quite excitedly. Now I noticed she's also very focused on that toy on the bench
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=948.8s	948.8	 over there. And as you've seen, I've been using toys that she's really into as artificial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=952.8s	952.8	 distractions. My hope is to do that out here in this new place. And my thought was that this toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=957.8s	957.8	 I brought from home would be a nice, easy distraction for her to practice with, but I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=961.6s	961.6	 she might love this a little bit more than I anticipated. Stay. It looks like Moira's hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=966.6s	966.6	 work with that stay is really paying off. So I'm delighted that she's holding her stay with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=971.1s	971.1	 significant distraction. This is absolutely a prerequisite for teaching your dog to stay around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=976.6s	976.6	 more enticing distractions, which we'll definitely encounter many more of today and in the coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=981.6s	981.6	 days. It looks like Moira is able to focus a little bit more on me now. So let's take advantage of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=986.6s	986.6	 that and see what we can get out of her. I want to capture as many instances as I can of Moira
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=991.8s	991.8	 voluntarily giving me her attention, even if briefly doing this one thing can be a game changer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=997.3s	997.3	 for many dogs and their leash training. Acknowledging your dog's willing attention can really accelerate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1002.6s	1002.6	 your progress. So we're definitely getting small moments of total compliance out of Moira while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1007.4s	1007.4	 she's in public. This is a huge step forward for her for good measure. Since she's doing really well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1011.9s	1011.9	 right now, let's try some of the things that she's only just learned. How about shake? Yes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1017.3s	1017.3	 shake. Love it. The day is still early and she's doing great here, but I want to give her a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1022.0s	1022.0	 bit of a break while we cruise on over to a little bit more of a challenging environment to see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1026.1s	1026.1	 we can replicate some of this success in a slightly harder place. This is city park in New Orleans.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1032.5s	1032.5	 We've come to a pretty secluded part of the park, but there's still definitely more traffic here than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1037.4s	1037.4	 the environment we just came from. I'm really trying to be as scientific as possible and change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1041.6s	1041.6	 as few variables as possible to hopefully help Moira succeed, but I may have gotten in over my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1046.4s	1046.4	 head here and immediately were presented with a dog in the distance. They're nice and far away,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1051.0s	1051.0	 so hopefully Moira will pay attention here. Come, let's go. Okay, that's not working. This really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1056.1s	1056.1	 gives you an idea as to how sensitive Moira is to other dogs. I mean, that dog is very far away and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1061.7s	1061.7	 Moira is already over threshold. Before this gets any worse, I'm going to help her out by moving her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1066.8s	1066.8	 farther away from the dog. And this is good. She doesn't need much coaxing to come along with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1071.5s	1071.5	 when the dog is that far away. That's definitely a plus since we have a lot to work on here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1076.5s	1076.5	 And here's another dog already that has walked into Moira's detection zone. And it's more of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1081.4s	1081.4	 the same. She's definitely not willing to voluntarily give me her attention if she can see a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1087.2s	1087.2	 at all. Even when I call Moira's name and I ask her to sit, she's completely non-compliant. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1092.8s	1092.8	 sure she just wants to play, but nonetheless, every family would prefer to have their dog behave a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1097.3s	1097.3	 little more civilized. Now that those dogs have cleared out, Moira seems a little more open to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1102.0s	1102.0	 communication right now. So let's try a quick training session. Notice I'm back to using the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1106.2s	1106.2	 lore here just to make it easier since this environment is clearly much harder for her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1111.0s	1111.0	 Training sessions like this are something you can do when your dog is in those calmer moments when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1115.3s	1115.3	 you're desensitizing them. Remember, training your dog to get over issues like overreactivity like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1119.8s	1119.8	 this is not a linear process. It takes time and sometimes you'll have good results and other times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1125.0s	1125.0	 you'll have setbacks. You just have to recover and keep practicing. Now that Moira's been here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1129.4s	1129.4	 for quite a while, she's showing signs of being much more able to comply and focus on me. So let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1134.0s	1134.0	 see if we can get a little bit of leash walking success while we have her attention because we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1138.2s	1138.2	 definitely need a lot of practice on that. As you can see, she's still not perfect. She's still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1143.8s	1143.8	 teetering between reacting to things all around her and paying attention to me. But I am starting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1148.5s	1148.5	 to see an increased rate of success. This is just the reality of training a dog. You can't get too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1153.5s	1153.5	 bogged down here when you're struggling. Just focus on noticing any moments of success and you'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1158.7s	1158.7	 start to see more and more over time if you stay the course. So moving forward, I have to focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1164.1s	1164.1	 giving Moira as much exposure as I can to help Moira learn to control herself around the huge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1169.1s	1169.1	 variety of distractions in her environment. It's not reasonable to expect her to instantly have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1174.0s	1174.0	 total pure focus on me at this point in her training, but I am getting sparks and that is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1178.9s	1178.9	 definitely a sign that we're on the right track. Once she's seen more of the world and things like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1183.2s	1183.2	 this start to become more normal to her, it'll be a lot easier for her to resist overreacting in only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1188.4s	1188.4	 the way that Moira does. The thing about Moira is when she's on and focused, she is on. But oh shoot,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1195.5s	1195.5	 here comes another dog. That didn't last very long. So essentially here, I'm letting Moira look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1200.4s	1200.4	 the dog and satisfy her curiosity, but then I'm also asking her for super brief glances at me too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1205.9s	1205.9	 and then letting her go right back to looking at the dog. Practicing with your dog like this around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1210.2s	1210.2	 things that distract them can be very powerful. Alright, dog is now...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1217.9s	1217.9	 I mean she almost got away there because she was acting calm and then look at this. Moira decides
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1222.8s	1222.8	 to lunge all out at this dog, so clearly this was asking a little bit too much of her. In hindsight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1227.9s	1227.9	 we probably should have been working a little bit farther away from this dog. Knowing your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1231.5s	1231.5	 working distance from distractions is powerful. So Moira's first public outing was definitely a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1237.0s	1237.0	 mixed bag. We obviously still have a lot to work on in order to get her to behave more ideally in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1241.7s	1241.7	 these situations. I guess she's pretty tired from training. I hope she doesn't sleep too much though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1246.8s	1246.8	 We gotta take your muscle off. We gotta take it off. Okay, muscle off. So not a bad day of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1252.4s	1252.4	 with her. She's doing all right. It's getting late now. I want to give Moira some exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1259.0s	1259.0	 because it is a big night. It is her first night hopefully of sleeping all alone by herself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1267.8s	1267.8	 in her new area. Well, we'll see how she does. Hold on. Let's practice. Stay here. Look at this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1273.5s	1273.5	 You can't just be running out of there. Sit. Here. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1279.1s	1279.1	 Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1287.0s	1287.0	 Here. No. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1293.5s	1293.5	 Okay. Good girl. So there we go. So we're going to start practicing more of that now that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1299.1s	1299.1	 knows that concept. Huge. You can see it's pretty dark right now, but she needs to play. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1304.4s	1304.4	 going to grab a toy and we're going to play. And I mean, that's the thing. When you're putting your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1310.8s	1310.8	 dog through boot camp, you got to get out here and work with them in the morning and the evening.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1316.3s	1316.3	 If you just put in your time here and do this right, it'll yield you dividends in the future.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1323.4s	1323.4	 Oh gosh. She was doing so well. All right. So I'm going to give her her food. She looks really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1328.9s	1328.9	 comfortable in here. And I mean, this is like a hotel compared to a crate. So I see why she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1333.6s	1333.6	 must prefer it. Remember this dog-proof walk-in closet is our crate alternative that we're testing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1338.8s	1338.8	 for Moira since she's been extremely anxious when confined in the crate. As she gets in her crate,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1344.1s	1344.1	 are you serious? Okay. Why not? We'll go ahead and feed her in the crate and I'm going to make my way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1350.0s	1350.0	 out and we'll check on her. I do expect maybe she might be a little antsy. It looks like she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1355.2s	1355.2	 finished eating and she's getting a little antsy as anticipated, but she's now taken a couple of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1361.8s	1361.8	 naps in there. So I'm thinking that she will eventually settle. I mean, she's got some anxiety,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1368.6s	1368.6	 but it's nothing compared to the anxiety she had on the second night she was here. So, oh boy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1374.2s	1374.2	 she's discovered the camera. My goodness. All right. It's still intact. We'll give her a minute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1382.8s	1382.8	 and see how she does. Oh, no. It's a new bed. I've been told she doesn't chew up her bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1394.6s	1394.6	 So I'm going to get in there and interrupt her if she tries that again. Moira, relax.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1405.8s	1405.8	 I did. Can you relax?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1413.4s	1413.4	 Good girl. She seems to be making the connection that I'm trying to communicate something to her,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1420.2s	1420.2	 doesn't she? Smart girl. Maybe I'll give her like a chew to chew on too. So I'm going to give her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1427.2s	1427.2	 something to chew on as well. She likes to do that. Good girl. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1436.8s	1436.8	 It's been a huge priority of mine to get her comfortable with being all alone because I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1445.6s	1445.6	 explained to you how important that is for a dog. I mean, we can't tend to them every second and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1449.7s	1449.7	 it's important that they are comfortable with just being alone. I mean, for the last five nights,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1455.0s	1455.0	 she's been sleeping with me out here. It was literally the only thing that seemed to reduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1460.6s	1460.6	 her anxiety. So if I can get a good night's sleep out of her tonight, I will be so happy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1465.8s	1465.8	 So it just goes to show you not every dog can be taught to love a crate. You have to be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1470.6s	1470.6	 brainstorm and be flexible when a dog is saying, hey, that's not something I'm cool with. Today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1476.3s	1476.3	 really had its ups and downs. It kind of hit me real hard today. This is day six of 14. I have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1483.9s	1483.9	 eight days left with her. And so I really know that I have to keep my expectations realistic.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1490.6s	1490.6	 There's only so much a dog can learn over the next eight days, but I also want to see some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1495.7s	1495.7	 significant progress out of her. But like what I saw today at the park, when she saw a dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1501.1s	1501.1	 she was just like very difficult to communicate with to say the least. And I mean, I know from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1506.2s	1506.2	 experience and when you're dealing with dog reactivity, that's something that is not resolved
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1510.6s	1510.6	 in two weeks at all. But I'm also really encouraged to because she's really picking up her basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1516.2s	1516.2	 really quickly. Her fetch is the biggest wild card of all. She's doing exceptional with fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1523.4s	1523.4	 so far. So I'm going to try and keep that going. That will open up a lot of doors because it means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1528.2s	1528.2	 I have a strong currency. It means that I'm able to get her energy out of her reliably before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1533.0s	1533.0	 training sessions. So that should make her more prone to absorb new concepts a little bit easier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1540.1s	1540.1	 That's one way to hit the fast forward button on your training program.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1545.0s	1545.0	 Exercise. I want to see how she's doing. She hasn't been making any noise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1552.6s	1552.6	 Oh my gosh. It's working. She's sleeping in her bed. Do you see that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1559.8s	1559.8	 She's going to sleep. This feels like a huge victory to me because anxiety is such a tough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1567.6s	1567.6	 thing to work through with some dogs and that does not look like an anxious dog at the moment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1574.1s	1574.1	 So I'm very happy. I'm still going to sleep out here so I can quickly get to her if I do think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1580.2s	1580.2	 that she's stressing or whatever. I just want to be really close by. We'll see. I'll let you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1585.0s	1585.0	 if anything changes. Good morning. I am pleased to announce that Moira did fantastic. Absolutely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1593.5s	1593.5	 wonderful. All night slept through the entire night. So I'm hoping that will stick and that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1599.6s	1599.6	 puts my mind at ease a little bit more because it is so important for her just to be comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1604.5s	1604.5	 in her own skin and when a person isn't around. So today is going to be another huge day of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1611.2s	1611.2	 training. Hopefully we can make some progress on her other issues as well. But I think I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1616.7s	1616.7	 to go get ready and then we're going to go get started. Get 30% off of select solid gold products
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1621.7s	1621.7	 by going to my special link in the description. Solid gold pet dot com slash Zach. If you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1626.5s	1626.5	 enjoying these videos, subscribe to my channel, follow us on Instagram, Facebook and Tik Tok and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2RoMgv7SsM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=215&pp=iAQB&t=1631.4s	1631.4	 get both of my books too. I'll have all the links below. We'll see you in episode six.
