https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today we're going to attempt to tackle Moira's barking, biting, and hopefully make some progress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=4.8s	4.8	 on her separation anxiety, as well as trying to start actually building some deeper communication
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=9.9s	9.9	 with her. This is Moira and I'm Zach George. Moira the German Shepherd Dog is looking for a home and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=15.1s	15.1	 I've only got two weeks to teach her how to behave so that someone will be willing to adopt her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=20.1s	20.1	 Okay, we have a situation and as you can see it's not going to be easy. She jumps excessively,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=26.4s	26.4	 lunges at almost any distraction. Moira loves to bark and she definitely pulls on leash and uses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=33.2s	33.2	 her teeth to interact with the world a little too inappropriately. I am feeling a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=38.6s	38.6	 overwhelmed. If that was a dog she would be like, I'm not paying attention to you, I'm paying attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=42.7s	42.7	 to that. I will train this dog. Look at this loose leash right now. Shake! Yes! Much better. Yes. Look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=52.8s	52.8	 at me. Is she getting trained? This is reality dog training. Reveal. Last time we saw that Moira
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=60.6s	60.6	 needs a lot of help with her manners and we started with some basic training with her. We taught her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=65.4s	65.4	 how to let go of a toy and how to leave something alone and pay attention to me. Today I'm hoping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=70.1s	70.1	 to take that to the next level but we obviously have to address this biting right now. I like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=75.5s	75.5	 always have like, oh geez, that's my mic. Gosh. We have to address this biting right here. She is way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=84.1s	84.1	 too old to be doing this kind of biting. This is exactly the kind of behavior that can scare a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=88.3s	88.3	 of people. So even though this hurts it is just play biting but a German shepherd even play biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=93.8s	93.8	 hard can still have unwanted consequences. So many rescues have this issue of adult puppy biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=99.0s	99.0	 because they don't always have someone who is there to show them exactly the right things to bite on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=104.5s	104.5	 So there we go. That's what I'm trying to do. I couldn't let that go on any longer. She doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=108.3s	108.3	 mind what she's biting on and honestly there are some good things that she can bite on. I need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=113.1s	113.1	 be very careful with her though because this is not the ideal tug toy but she's into it. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=120.4s	120.4	 Whoa! Thought that was better. Still gotta watch it. There we go. So adult puppy biting can be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 dangerous for people for obvious reasons and it's dangerous for dogs because they can be misunderstood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 while they're doing it. I want to let her know biting is okay but only with permission and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=134.2s	134.2	 only with approved items. I mean half the battle is just getting her to play tug. That's no problem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=139.4s	139.4	 for her. We got that under control. Don't even need to generate interest. She's like give it to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=143.9s	143.9	 and so that's exciting for a lot of reasons. Okay we need to practice let go. Let go. Good. Stay. Hope
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=150.6s	150.6	 she doesn't know stay. My bad. Sit though. I'll take it. Good. Okay. I'm gonna continue to work on tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=157.1s	157.1	 and let go until it looks really perfect because I want to be able to communicate with her like by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=162.4s	162.4	 giving her this outlet but only under very strict rules. Let go. Yes. Good. See that? Quick let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=170.0s	170.0	 All right. Now I'm gonna ask her to do something. Let go. You'll see where this is going and how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=174.4s	174.4	 teaching your dog to bite can actually help you teach them to stop biting. Seems weird right? Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=181.1s	181.1	 Okay get it. Let go. Yes. Let me go for a shorter tug. Good. Okay. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=197.7s	197.7	 Gonna withhold for a little bit longer here just to let her know that last little non-cooperative
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=203.2s	203.2	 tug at the toy was something I don't want her to repeat. So there's going to be a consequence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=208.4s	208.4	 You can see she might be a little irritated by that so let's keep it positive. Sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=212.2s	212.2	 scratching like that can mean a dog is getting frustrated so let's keep it optimistic. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=223.4s	223.4	 Good. Okay. That's very good. Oh we're gonna take a break now. Good. I don't know how that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=229.9s	229.9	 gonna happen. I'm gonna continue to work on her very persistent play biting. She's had a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=234.6s	234.6	 time to establish this habit so it's gonna take a second to get under control most likely. Hold on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=240.4s	240.4	 This is currency. This is money. You have to earn this. Moira has to have some basic skills. We have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=246.4s	246.4	 to be able to put her into a sit position, a lie down position. Sometimes we want her to come up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=251.8s	251.8	 into a stand position you know to be brushed or to be groomed. These are all really essential skills
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=257.0s	257.0	 that we should teach our dogs. I'm using Pup Bird's freeze-dried rabbit today and she's really into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=263.4s	263.4	 them. This basic training is something that you can teach a dog really quickly. It's also another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=267.8s	267.8	 great way to redirect their puppy energy when they start biting on you. Sit. Good. So fortunately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=275.0s	275.0	 she already knows sit. That's awesome. I'm going to start by luring her into a down with a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=280.3s	280.3	 and I'm going to reward for the smallest step in the right direction to help her learn this one fast.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=285.2s	285.2	 Since this is an early primary training session I'm going to be pretty liberal on my treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=290.2s	290.2	 A little more just a little. Yes. See like those legs right there are starting to bend a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=297.8s	297.8	 This is called lure training what we're doing right here. We're just luring her. I'm literally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=302.2s	302.2	 using the treat to direct her downwards like this. Yes. Good girl. I like to think of her nose and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=309.7s	309.7	 the treat as magnets. The closer they are the more likely she is to engage with the treat. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=314.9s	314.9	 going to lure her back into an up here as soon as she's quite a little reluctant there. See it might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=319.6s	319.6	 be too far. What happens if I come down here and I really magnetize it to her nose. Hasn't quite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=325.3s	325.3	 computed yet. Yes. Good girl. Did you see her brainstorming? That was really cool.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=333.6s	333.6	 And then back into it down. Let's see how long it takes her to get the treat now. Yes. See much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=339.4s	339.4	 quicker that time when she gets it she really gets it. Sit. Don't need to lure her on sit because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=346.6s	346.6	 she knows that now we're going to lure her into a down. Yes. See maybe I can do this another way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=353.5s	353.5	 get her to come up. We can do. Yes. I love the stand right there. That's really cool. Moira is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=358.6s	358.6	 catching on to this so quickly. Let's see if we can start to phase out that lure. Yes. Good. Really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=365.4s	365.4	 key moment there. That was where we were transforming from the lure to a hand signal. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=369.7s	369.7	 by the way even though I'm using a lot of treats today that will not always be the case. In the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=373.9s	373.9	 beginning you really want to get traction even for the first several months of training up to a year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=378.8s	378.8	 to really solidify these behaviors as much as we can. Yes. There's the sit. Now let's get her back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=384.9s	384.9	 into a stand. Yes. Yes. And okay I'll go ahead and release her from the stand just to let her know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=393.9s	393.9	 So rather than just letting the behavior die off really put a clear end to it so they understand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=399.1s	399.1	 Okay is a term that I use just to kind of let her know okay we're done with that particular thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=403.0s	403.0	 We're going to move on to the next thing. And remember yes is my really special word right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=407.2s	407.2	 I'm really sure to reward her every time I say yes or at least I have tried to. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=413.4s	413.4	 And give her another treat. Yes. I will reward on sit here to keep her going.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=419.2s	419.2	 Yes. Down. Starting to say down you know as she's doing the thing. Let's go directly from the down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=425.3s	425.3	 to the stand now. Yes. She's smart. What it was. You can see if she were to get into a bitey mood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=432.1s	432.1	 now I have down and stand that I can focus on teaching her. So I might go through that similar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=437.3s	437.3	 routine next time she has a biting outburst with me. So we're really establishing a lot of great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=441.8s	441.8	 communication together already. Leave it and look at me. She's learning how to do the stand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=447.0s	447.0	 Leave it and look at me. She's learning how to do these basic skills right now. Moira.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=452.5s	452.5	 And to reiterate every time she comes to me for the next two weeks I'm going to go out of my way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=457.4s	457.4	 to reward her and make her life very pleasant for listening to that one. You don't want to be stingy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=462.3s	462.3	 on that with a new dog or any dog and especially a dog like her. I would say she's definitely a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=466.8s	466.8	 flight fisk. If she could get out of the gate or the door she would run and you're not catching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=471.9s	471.9	 up to her. So we really want to start building the strongest recall we can. Teaching basics like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=477.4s	477.4	 this is so important because it helps your dog start to learn to understand how to interact with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=482.3s	482.3	 you. And whether you're teaching an older dog or a puppy you've got to teach them all the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=486.2s	486.2	 things eventually. If you have a new dog consider signing up for my 30 day perfect pup program.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=490.8s	490.8	 It's actually completely free. No strings attached. It's a course that I've designed to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=494.8s	494.8	 guide you through everything you need to know how to get started with teaching all the basics.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=499.0s	499.0	 I've actually got exclusive video lessons in that course and tons of additional resources to help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=503.8s	503.8	 you make progress. There's even an app available so you can keep track of your progress and take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=508.3s	508.3	 all of your new dog training knowledge wherever you go. I'm going to have a link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=511.8s	511.8	 where you can sign up. It's time to put Moira up tonight. Moira definitely has separation anxiety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=517.4s	517.4	 so I'm still troubleshooting to see the extent of it. I toss in some treats in there. So like I said
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=526.8s	526.8	 before my goal isn't necessarily to have her in the crate as a primary way to contain her but I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=533.6s	533.6	 do think it's important that she be comfortable with it. Especially right now. I'm thinking she'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=537.8s	537.8	 probably settle down in a little bit. So we're going on our second night with Moira and I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=544.5s	544.5	 to sleep out here. I've got the air mattress out here again and we're going to see how she does.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=549.6s	549.6	 Last night as you might recall she did pretty well. She woke up one time, let her out. She was good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=554.4s	554.4	 for the rest of the night. You don't necessarily have the night waking problems with adult dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=558.8s	558.8	 that you might have with puppies though you can. It really depends but we'll see. I don't want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=563.3s	563.3	 predict anything. I'm still gathering data. It is only my second day with her. You can see look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=568.6s	568.6	 there's a bone on top of her crate. I think I'm glad she wants that because that's a really great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=575.0s	575.0	 way to get them comfortable with their crate. There you go. If I can get her to sleep eight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=581.8s	581.8	 hours in there, even if I'm right here, that's eight hours that she experiences being in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=586.5s	586.5	 crate while in a relaxed state of mind even if she is unconscious. I mean it's something. So my goal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=592.6s	592.6	 with crate training is really just to rack up time with them being in the crate where they do not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=597.6s	597.6	 feel stressed. Overnight is one of the easiest times to accomplish that if you have a dog who's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=603.4s	603.4	 kind of borderline with the crate like her. So she just started getting a little antsy. I got up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=608.7s	608.7	 then I walked away just a few feet. So I'm gonna wait for her to calm down here for just a second
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=614.0s	614.0	 and we'll see how she does. I'm gonna give her a turbo tendon. I gave her one of these yesterday
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=621.2s	621.2	 and she really liked it. You can see she wants it. So sometimes it's as simple as just giving your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=627.7s	627.7	 dog something else to do. By the way if you're wondering about the crate pad, she got so muddy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=632.4s	632.4	 yesterday that the bed was just not usable. So we put a crate pad in there and this is different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=638.5s	638.5	 than last night because I'm right here. Last night when I was this close to her, her anxiety subsided.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=645.1s	645.1	 Good yes. I'm gonna try one more thing. I'm just gonna ignore her for five straight minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=651.6s	651.6	 and if after five minutes she's still feeling frantic, I'll probably adjust my strategy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=655.9s	655.9	 Let her sleep on the tie-out next to me where she has a little bit more room but I don't want her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=660.5s	660.5	 to continue to stress though. I mean if you're wondering why I'm doing this, it's because a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=665.1s	665.1	 crate can often make it easier to manage a dog and I like to use really oversized crates so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=671.5s	671.5	 for a crate this is pretty big but the more and more that I'm watching her the more I'm realizing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=677.1s	677.1	 that a crate really might not be for her. I just let her out so I don't think she has to relieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=681.8s	681.8	 herself. Five minutes can seem like an eternity when you're timing things like this. All right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=687.8s	687.8	 I'm gonna call it and we're gonna tie her out. All right got you on the tie-out. She's still a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=694.3s	694.3	 little frantic but see if she settles down a little bit. So you can see she has like I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=700.3s	700.3	 know 12 foot radius. Maybe she just wants some cuddling. Let's see how that goes. Come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=706.9s	706.9	 Oh my goodness. I mean think about how much they have to take in you know. She's getting a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=711.8s	711.8	 experience. The first few months of her life have been all over the place I'm sure and I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=717.8s	717.8	 ultimately that's probably going to serve her really well. Having all of these experiences as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=723.4s	723.4	 unconventional as they might be. Possibly born astray. Maybe she had a family. She didn't appear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=729.7s	729.7	 to be in the best health when she was found and then she had a foster mom right. Now she's here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=735.8s	735.8	 and she might just want a little interaction here. She's like I still want to play a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=740.1s	740.1	 bit more before we go to bed. I mean isn't this what dog training is? It's just a lot of trial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=744.2s	744.2	 and error seeing what works for what dog. This is a good wrestling dog too but we're gonna go easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=749.8s	749.8	 on the wrestling. After all we're trying to make her the ideal family dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=754.7s	754.7	 and that's a very personal thing. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=758.8s	758.8	 Okay looks like she's happy now. She just grabbed her turbo chew so maybe she'll get into that now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=766.0s	766.0	 All right so she is settling down. So all in all the troubleshooting there was I gave her a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=771.6s	771.6	 bit of attention a little bit of play time and then she decided to settle down. I think we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=776.5s	776.5	 finally getting a sleeping dog. Good night Moira. Good morning. Okay so Moira slept wonderfully
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=786.7s	786.7	 last night although she didn't sleep on the floor. She ended up sleeping right here which in a way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=791.9s	791.9	 kind of complicates things because I was hoping to be able to train her not to be on the furniture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=798.9s	798.9	 which I still am but I had to weigh a bunch of things like in the crate she was way too anxious
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=803.8s	803.8	 and here she would settle down but she would still get up in pace in a way that made me think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=808.7s	808.7	 she was feeling some anxiety and then once she got up here at the foot of the bed she just passed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=812.8s	812.8	 out and the anxiety seemed to be reduced so you need to prioritize these things when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=817.4s	817.4	 training a dog. To me anxiety can be significant and if there's anything I can do to reduce that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=822.6s	822.6	 if just laying here was enough to make her feel calm and at ease and make her feel a lot better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=828.2s	828.2	 I was happy to do that. That may not be practical for her new family I don't know so I don't love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=833.1s	833.1	 that aspect of it but reducing anxiety is one of the more important things. I'm still not giving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=837.8s	837.8	 up on crate training my next strategy with the crate is to try and get her to enjoy it maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=844.6s	844.6	 when she's in a real fatigue state of mind maybe after a long walk or heavy play and seeing if I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=849.2s	849.2	 can get her to just chill and take a nap there so the crate training saga continues.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=857.7s	857.7	 What is this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=858.6s	858.6	 What is this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=860.8s	860.8	 I get up to go and get ready and she starts doing this that's pretty insistent girl you can do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=866.9s	866.9	 better than this. To give you some context here I was just playing with her and I'm like oh I better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=872.7s	872.7	 go get ready so we can shoot today and she just lost her mind. I don't want to cave I just go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=881.2s	881.2	 This is really like what we call it's a man working. Girl I'm gonna wait for a fraction of quiet and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=888.3s	888.3	 then I'm gonna go acknowledge the quiet. Yes fraction of quiet. Quiet good girl okay the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=893.8s	893.8	 jumping is another thing we've got to work on. Yes good girl so gonna reward the quiet there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=901.5s	901.5	 Good girl. This is why you keep your treats handy when you're training a dog you know you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=905.7s	905.7	 really be able to snap into training mode. The freeze-dried rabbit a huge hit with her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=910.6s	910.6	 I'm gonna give her one of these turbo chews to see if that makes her feel complacent. I don't know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=915.9s	915.9	 are you in the mood for a turbo chew or not? I'd say that's a yes so I'm gonna just chill here for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=923.2s	923.2	 a sec see if she gets fixated on that and then I'm gonna go get ready and we are gonna teach this dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=929.8s	929.8	 somehow how to stay when I asked her to. Good luck. Oh boy you did pan on me when I was like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=935.4s	935.4	 having the thought of how on earth are we gonna get this done.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=941.1s	941.1	 Yeah this is this is why I'm supposed to get ready before we shoot. Not too close.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=947.5s	947.5	 That's how I looked. Yeah. Gosh. That's one way to deal with a barking outburst. Remember we call
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=953.4s	953.4	 those secondary training sessions that's where we snap into training mode on a moment's notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=958.3s	958.3	 because our dog is behaving in a way that requires us to do it and I think where most people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=962.6s	962.6	 probably screw up the most when training their dog is they rely on training sessions like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=968.2s	968.2	 as a primary way to train their dog when in reality you have to really be proactive about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=973.1s	973.1	 teaching them how to sit and stay and be quiet and lie down and all of that so that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=977.9s	977.9	 give them alternative things to do rather than just getting frustrated when they bark but good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=982.6s	982.6	 example of a secondary training session they are necessary they're just not the main way that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=986.9s	986.9	 train a dog and to clarify if you're wondering well Zach is that a reward when you gave her the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=991.1s	991.1	 treats and gave her the tendon I wouldn't say it's a reward because I was really zooming in on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=996.2s	996.2	 acknowledging the quiet more calm behavior and that's why I gave that to her I didn't keep the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1001.4s	1001.4	 bar so high that I was going to make her be quiet for 30 minutes before I gave her something. Do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1007.7s	1007.7	 you see what I mean? When you have a new dog you just want to find small sometimes microscopic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1012.2s	1012.2	 moments to acknowledge and you'll be surprised at the kind of traction that can give you on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1017.4s	1017.4	 your training so now hopefully she'll be on that for 10-20 minutes while I go get ready and we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1022.7s	1022.7	 get on with life. Okay young lady it is time for your next lesson you guys know that I think that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1029.2s	1029.2	 teaching a dog to stay is by far one of the most important things and she's off to a pretty good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1034.8s	1034.8	 start like well spoke too soon sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1041.1s	1041.1	 good and that was effectively a stay you see how she's holding her position I like to break
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1045.4s	1045.4	 down stay into three major categories stay for a period of time yes much like we're seeing right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1051.4s	1051.4	 here stay while we walk away with distance and finally stay while distracted yes now I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1059.5s	1059.5	 like to teach all three of those separately one at a time really zoom in on the specific thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1065.2s	1065.2	 that you're trying to train at a particular moment but you can see stay for a period of time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1069.5s	1069.5	 this is the easiest version of a stay right and then saying okay come on rattle the bag over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1075.0s	1075.0	 good job to get a really excited just wanted to be super obvious so she understands what we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1079.9s	1079.9	 doing we have a beginning and a middle and an end to what we're requesting all right here she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1085.4s	1085.4	 wandering off this is why we have her on leash usually come on girl Moira
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1092.6s	1092.6	 yes definitely want to give her a huge reward there sit good you can see her focus is good let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1101.7s	1101.7	 me let me just test look at me look at me yes good took her a second there but that's good I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1108.6s	1108.6	 just wanted to measure I'm gonna walk away then I'm gonna come back here see how her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1114.7s	1114.7	 was waning there good girl stay walking away notice how I'm not releasing her from the stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1120.9s	1120.9	 over here that she's doing really well with this very good I'm coming over here and now I'm gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1126.9s	1126.9	 say okay come on yes good Moira is definitely a dual currency dog meaning she'll work for treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1135.6s	1135.6	 as we saw but right now I suspect she's really in the mood to play if I can get traction this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1140.9s	1140.9	 gonna be really effective but right now she's gonna be pretty wild but this is a powerful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1145.9s	1145.9	 currency but she's gonna go nuts over it this is something a lot of people deal with how do I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1149.9s	1149.9	 reward with a toy my dog is just this crazy after all I'm trying to teach stay which is kind of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1155.4s	1155.4	 opposite of what we're seeing here right she's wound up let go uh-uh leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1161.3s	1161.3	 leave it sit stay good girl okay good so she was I mean I had to fight for that stay a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1177.4s	1177.4	 she was so wound up I was a little physical there as well you're not used to seeing that but when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1181.4s	1181.4	 you have a dog like this it's all about how the dog perceives it she didn't seem to perceive me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1186.6s	1186.6	 like being a barrier and even restraining her as being aversive at all she's like all right what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1191.2s	1191.2	 do I got to do to get it so it's really dog by dog that you have to consider your approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1195.4s	1195.4	 pardon the tangent here but you know you got to be prepared to go in the direction your dog wants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1200.6s	1200.6	 to go in from time to time and remember we're still polishing up let go still let go stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1209.7s	1209.7	 look at me love that another variation of the leave it look at me combo look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1214.7s	1214.7	 okay yes good good girl I'm gonna bring that toy to life and really give her the things she wants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1221.5s	1221.5	 when she did it a lot just happened there we did stay for a period of time we did stay while I walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1226.9s	1226.9	 away I was able to get her to look at the toy and leave it alone while I held it off to the side and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1231.9s	1231.9	 then I asked her to look at me and she looked at me stay all of those skills are something that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1237.1s	1237.1	 is not used to working with me on she's very new to this but she's smart she catches on fast okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1242.8s	1242.8	 yes good job see that so we have stay for a period of time stay while we walk away so the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1248.7s	1248.7	 hard part for her and for any dog is learning how to stay when they want to go or stay while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1255.1s	1255.1	 distracted she got me there pretty good but she let go thankfully whoa geez that jumping I mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1261.8s	1261.8	 this is something we got to work on we'll work on that later but focus on stay while distracted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1265.8s	1265.8	 all right let go easy sit stay she's looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1275.1s	1275.1	 look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1278.3s	1278.3	 yes okay good girl very good in that example you could see how she held her stay while something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1284.2s	1284.2	 she really wants was nearby but did you also notice how delicate I was I didn't make the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1288.6s	1288.6	 distraction super crazy we want to work up to that stay the whole reason that I'm picking up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1295.0s	1295.0	 and dropping the toy repeatedly here is to bring movement to it see things that move are generally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1300.6s	1300.6	 more tempting to dogs than things that are stationary okay good and there's the reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1305.8s	1305.8	 that was a lot farther than I thought we would get I mean we had stay for duration while I walked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1310.6s	1310.6	 away and while distracted there so those are rough draft versions that I'm going to try and build on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1315.7s	1315.7	 we also did this training in my living room where there aren't many distractions at all so I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1320.3s	1320.3	 to be looking for more advanced versions of that moving forward as we train in different environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1325.9s	1325.9	 you can see how excited Moira is about her food right now and we'll tackle jumping later but we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1330.8s	1330.8	 also know that she has the anxiety over the crate but I have a hunch look at that she'll go right in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1336.8s	1336.8	 when you give her her food there so I do want to make sure that every time I feed her I feed her in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1343.4s	1343.4	 her crates and she so eagerly goes in there for her meal this is one of the very few ways that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1349.4s	1349.4	 found so far to give her a real positive stress free presumably or relatively stress free time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1355.2s	1355.2	 to be in the crate and like I said before it's about racking up individual minutes over time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1359.8s	1359.8	 with them enjoying being in the crate as she appears to be right now she's at least enjoying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1364.1s	1364.1	 eating while in the crate I just want to see after she's done eating which should be in about four
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1367.8s	1367.8	 seconds going at this rate how she does does she immediately start pacing back and forth like we've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1373.8s	1373.8	 seen or does she relax even if she does start pacing I want to give her a moment to see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1379.1s	1379.1	 she settles down so really we're just testing here it's the scientific method in action my hope is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1385.0s	1385.0	 that she's like okay I'm gonna just take a break now I had some mental stimulation with that last
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1389.1s	1389.1	 training session I'm full maybe she might relax maybe I'm being too optimistic I don't know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1397.4s	1397.4	 there's pacing but it's slow pacing it's not fast pacing so I think I have a let me give her a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1406.5s	1406.5	 bit of I like that she's sitting on one hand you want to let her out before the stress increases
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1411.7s	1411.7	 but on the other hand if you think it might go in the other direction you want to see if you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1416.2s	1416.2	 give her a success where she might relax I'm staying close on purpose because I'm almost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1422.4s	1422.4	 positive if I walk away at this point we're likely to see her get really amped up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1429.8s	1429.8	 which I'd like to avoid looking for ways to escape that crate all right I'm gonna go ahead and let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1435.8s	1435.8	 her out let me see if I can get a sit at least can you sit thank you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1443.6s	1443.6	 then we'll go with our crate alternative I also only use this tie out while she's being supervised
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1451.2s	1451.2	 by Brie or me this might look a little odd to a lot of you but this is a way to phase in freedom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1457.2s	1457.2	 in the house and she has about as much room as any standard living room probably so she still has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1462.3s	1462.3	 plenty of freedom here between training sessions so I'm out here with inertia right now just chilling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1468.0s	1468.0	 we're getting some frisbee practice in while Moira takes a rest is that one catchable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1474.7s	1474.7	 yes very good girl it's a windy day you know you're being pretty epic today I gotta say she made some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1482.5s	1482.5	 amazing catches off camera you still got energy all right come around go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1493.9s	1493.9	 wow I'm just amazed because it's such a bad throw in this wind it's hard to be straight sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1501.5s	1501.5	 to be straight sometimes and she just finds a way to catch up to him look at that she's on fire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1508.5s	1508.5	 all right our yard guys have shown up and of course Moira's quite alert by that but she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1513.7s	1513.7	 doing okay come here girl what's up shake off there you go she's doing okay let me see if I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1521.9s	1521.9	 can just encourage her to do some normal behavior like a sit while in the presence of the yard guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1529.9s	1529.9	 there's a couple of things going on number one you've got really loud sounds from weed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1534.0s	1534.0	 whackers and lawn mowers and secondly you have people who are close by on the property a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1538.9s	1538.9	 of dogs will become alert when that happens hey I didn't release you from your sit come here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1543.7s	1543.7	 sit I think someone's learning okay good there you go how's that toy go get that toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1552.4s	1552.4	 good girl so this is pretty awesome you can see we've got weed whackers out there we've got the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1559.0s	1559.0	 lawn mower going out there and I'm able to keep her focus on this toy which is great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1565.5s	1565.5	 you might notice we still have the tie out in lieu of a crate here so if I can keep her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1570.8s	1570.8	 on me even if it's through a toy when there are heavy distractions like that or moderate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1575.8s	1575.8	 distractions at least oh come on oh you couldn't last come on here this way come on I'm resisting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1585.1s	1585.1	 the urge to pull her away because I want to see if I can get her attention on me voluntarily that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1590.7s	1590.7	 is the key see if I can motivate her to listen to me without pulling her away that would help me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1595.8s	1595.8	 start laying a foundation for this kind of training around things that she wants to bark at treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1600.4s	1600.4	 helped have you some problem solving come so we have work to do in that department obviously I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1606.2s	1606.2	 don't mind her barking when there are people at the house but when I ask her to be quiet I would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1610.0s	1610.0	 like for her to learn how to stop I think most people would agree with that so that's where we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1614.6s	1614.6	 are here do you want this sit good all right finally got my sit there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1627.8s	1627.8	 good job let me try let's go back to basics look at me yes this is counter conditioning trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1634.9s	1634.9	 change her response to various stimuli good girl all right take a break all right back to normal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1641.4s	1641.4	 focused on her toy I'm just gonna let her do that that's fine with me while I was upstairs and my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1646.4s	1646.4	 wife Brie was dog sitting our neighbor dogs Lucy and Winnie were taking a walk and Moira noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1651.4s	1651.4	 them and look how Brie snaps into training mode where yes yeah good shake off perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1661.1s	1661.1	 so this is great she's clearly interested in the dogs but she still gave Brie her attention for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1665.7s	1665.7	 sec naturally this is going to be easier for her than if she were outside and closer to the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1670.4s	1670.4	 I'm hoping to build upon this when we start training in public over the coming days but as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1674.5s	1674.5	 you can see she's almost too wound up to listen even here in the living room so wish me luck on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1681.0s	1681.0	 it's night three uh crate training overnight is not going the best the good news is Moira is super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1692.2s	1692.2	 comfortable in bed she's not stressed out at all she seems really happy perfect look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1701.1s	1701.1	 a nice settle but in all seriousness since she had really significant anxiety I'm just doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1708.7s	1708.7	 anything I can to get her more comfortable and this is like literally the only thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1714.9s	1714.9	 that's caused her to be comfortable and I feel like we are not causing irreversible damage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1730.4s	1730.4	 number one dog training channel on youtube right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1735.8s	1735.8	 you want to play I'll give you a little bit of play I'll give you a little bit of play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1740.6s	1740.6	 I mean honestly the bond is what trumps everything when you're training a dog you gotta
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1746.2s	1746.2	 really get to know each other and like each other it's impossible not to like a dog fortunately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1752.7s	1752.7	 they feel the same way about us most of the time okay Moira you win she's talked me into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1757.5s	1757.5	 playing a game of tug of war before bed you might also notice this handle we've attached to her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1763.8s	1763.8	 I'm trying to phase in more time off of the temporary indoor tie out there so this traffic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1770.7s	1770.7	 handle really allows me to get a hold of her a little bit easier if I need to but still when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1776.7s	1776.7	 I'm not supervising her I have her restrained here come on see right here want to be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1785.7s	1785.7	 quickly get to her don't want her going back there pardon the mess believe it or not I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1791.7s	1791.7	 feel like we're starting to lay a foundation for Moira's training but the coming days are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1795.5s	1795.5	 definitely going to bring some huge challenges for both of us and spoiler alert things aren't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1800.5s	1800.5	 going to go this smoothly for long so definitely subscribe to my channel to see how everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1805.0s	1805.0	 plays out and sign up for my totally free digital dog training course 30 day perfect pup and check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1809.8s	1809.8	 out puffer's awesome training treats and shoes that you saw me using in this episode follow us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1813.8s	1813.8	 on instagram facebook and tiktok and get both of my books all of the links will be in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8b_vYes8ISQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=218&pp=iAQB&t=1818.4s	1818.4	 description and we'll see you in episode three
