https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Believe it or not, it has been a long time since I've actually seen Kona.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 I know it's only been a few days for you guys, but for me, it's been 18 weeks since Kona finished
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=9.3s	9.3	 her three weeks with us. I know, I just totally blew your mind, didn't I? I've got a really fun
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=14.1s	14.1	 and exciting day planned for us, and I want to make sure that Kona has the best meal possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=18.2s	18.2	 before we start. Each and every one of us care deeply about what our dogs eat. And Nom Nom is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=23.3s	23.3	 at the leading edge of fresh meals for dogs. Their meals are specifically created and portioned for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 your dogs by veterinary nutritionists, which is so important for fresh feeding. Most people don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=34.1s	34.1	 realize how tricky and how important it is to get your dog's nutrition balanced correctly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=38.4s	38.4	 Nom Nom takes care of all of that, which I really love. It's really refreshing how you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=43.4s	43.4	 all of the ingredients in Nom Nom too. They use real whole foods like chicken and vegetables that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 are human restaurant grade, and they arrive freezing cold and pre-portioned every two weeks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 You can get 50% off of a two-week trial at my special link, trinom.com slash Zack. I'll have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=58.3s	58.3	 that link below. I'm tripping out right now. I mean, I knew she was bigger, but what? I know. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=64.9s	64.9	 literally just handed her to Zack. I went and picked her up and I felt like it was going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=69.3s	69.3	 freak him out. She reminds me of one of those things you drop in water and they grow. Oh yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=73.5s	73.5	 like the sponges? Yeah, she looks like one of those. Hey, good girl. As you can see, my three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=81.2s	81.2	 weeks have come and gone with Kona, and she's had a few months to get just a little bit bigger.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=86.2s	86.2	 You arrived here so clean and you've instantly gotten muddy. You know what they say though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=90.6s	90.6	 a dirty dog is a happy dog. First things first, the one thing I want to do is let her and Inersia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=96.2s	96.2	 get caught up and play and expend some of this energy. That should make our training go extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=101.4s	101.4	 smooth today. Okay, it looks like they definitely remember each other. They are so cute. I love how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=107.5s	107.5	 Inersia and Kona have almost exactly the same type of play style, like a little rough, but pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=113.4s	113.4	 polite. I know Inersia prefers more polite players like this, but both dogs can throw it down once
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=118.6s	118.6	 they get warmed up too. This is one of my favorite things to do to watch dogs run and play rough and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=123.8s	123.8	 chase each other. This is what I mean when I say that dogs instinctively really enjoy the game of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=129.0s	129.0	 chase, whether it's with another dog or even with a person, which is why I use chase so much when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=134.3s	134.3	 we're teaching skills like fetch. Honestly, I think we could make the entire video them playing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 I can't wait to see how much of Kona's training has stuck. Has she developed any other issues?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=144.5s	144.5	 Has she gotten better or worse? So many questions. I also want to give you a heads up on our next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=150.6s	150.6	 series. For those of you who have a dog that is nothing like Kona, this is Moira and I'm pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=156.6s	156.6	 positive that if you like watching me struggle, you're going to love this series so that you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=161.1s	161.1	 get notified every single time we post a new video, subscribe and click the bell. Oh look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=165.4s	165.4	 she's found a nurse's frisbee. From what I understand, Tristan, her dad has told me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=170.0s	170.0	 that it's starting to click with frisbee, but she won't catch it out of the air. Like she'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=174.5s	174.5	 run after it. She'll chase it. She even brings it back, but she won't grab it out of the air.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 You know, that's the kind of thing that you have to be patient with your dog on, but you guys might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=182.5s	182.5	 not know when someone tells me their dog is this close to catching a frisbee. I can't resist. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=187.1s	187.1	 play. I can tell she wants me to throw it here. Let me see if I can get her going. Ready? Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=196.2s	196.2	 Look at that. Good girl. I love how she brought it back there. Okay. We need to find our rhythm.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=202.8s	202.8	 So you can see she'll look at it. She'll track it. She's like, cool. I'll even bring it back.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=208.5s	208.5	 She goes right up to it and everything. Like it's as though she knows it needs to be in her mouth,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=212.7s	212.7	 but she doesn't grab it out of the air. So most people just throw the frisbee and hope their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=216.6s	216.6	 dog figures out how to catch it. So there's some in-between work you have to do. Let me first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=221.0s	221.0	 establish that she knows how to take it out of my hand. I mean, does she know how to take it when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=224.6s	224.6	 it's even in this position? Get it. Yes. Good. Yes. Good. Now when she does it, I'm going to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=232.7s	232.7	 tug with her. Yes. Get it. Good girl. Good. I'm going to roll it again to teach her to snag it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=240.8s	240.8	 while it's moving. I love how she flipped it over there. Often by rolling the frisbee like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=245.0s	245.0	 you're really encouraging them to pick it up by the rim too. Trying to get them to catch a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=249.0s	249.0	 baby throw nice and close so they understand the concept. Do you see how she's starting to go for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=253.5s	253.5	 it with her mouth open? Yes. Good. Almost. Yes. There it is. There you go. She caught it in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=261.5s	261.5	 air. That's typically what a first catch in the air will look like. Yeah. Good. Yes. Good. She
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=266.9s	266.9	 caught that. Did you see that? She's probably a few days away from really getting it. I think if she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=271.2s	271.2	 and her family work on this for a few days, she'll be in good shape in no time. But of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=275.9s	275.9	 I want to make sure that my job with Kona today isn't too easy. I'm going to take her to one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=280.8s	280.8	 my absolute favorite places to train a park that is completely filled with distractions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=286.3s	286.3	 Why do I always do this to myself? So we have a bit of a walk in front of us and this is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=290.4s	290.4	 to be a good time to let her adjust. So I'm going to let her check out things. Come on, let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=294.7s	294.7	 Good girl. Hey. That's one thing I've always loved about Kona. Like she'll check out the dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=302.5s	302.5	 but she doesn't fixate on them, which is really nice. Though I'm told that it's gotten a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=306.7s	306.7	 more difficult for her to resist as she's gotten a bit older too though. So maybe I spoke too soon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=312.4s	312.4	 I'm letting her stop and pause. Okay, come on, let's go. She's real responsive there. I like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=319.3s	319.3	 Free walks like this are important because they allow your dog to explore and satisfy their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=324.2s	324.2	 curiosities as much as reasonably possible anyway, because sometimes if you just let your dog check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=328.5s	328.5	 things out, they're a lot less likely to be thrown off by them in the future. I mean, imagine being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=332.5s	332.5	 a kid and going to a theme park and within minutes of being there, your parents say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=336.6s	336.6	 sit down and do your homework. I am noticing some leash pulling though. That's a little new.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=341.0s	341.0	 And it's kind of normal to see leash pulling increase with a dog like this, especially because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 they haven't really had a lot of time to develop the muscle memory to continue to go slow. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=350.6s	350.6	 look how quickly she grew and those strides have gotten bigger and bigger at an exponential rate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=357.2s	357.2	 So it's no wonder that she would want to walk faster than we do. She's so aware of everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 that's going on around her too. Can you see that? She's looking at the dogs and the people walk by.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=366.4s	366.4	 Let's go. I don't know if you can hear those dogs barking, but she reacted just as you would hope,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 but we get this leash pulling and that's something that I think she needs improvement with. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=380.7s	380.7	 I should also point out we've been here many minutes. I haven't even given her a treat or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=384.1s	384.1	 anything like that. My goal here is really just to let her check out the environment,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=387.9s	387.9	 not distract her with treats, but I think she's mostly adjusted. Now, if I recall Kona was so good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=394.8s	394.8	 on her recall, she would come when called very reliably. So I want to see how that looks really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=400.6s	400.6	 quick. Kona come. Yes. Nice job girl. Do you remember how to sit? She sure does. Yes. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=411.5s	411.5	 So far so good. I'm going to try and feel her out now and insist that she pay closer attention to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=416.5s	416.5	 on leash in this place. Kona. Here we go. I'm going to just turn around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=423.5s	423.5	 Yes. Very good. I am going to reward now because we're doing a training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=427.7s	427.7	 Love that. I'm just looking to see if she readily pays attention to where the walk is headed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=431.7s	431.7	 Remember that's where we really tried to lay the foundation with her. Come here girl. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=439.9s	439.9	 She's a little excited. I'm just trying to get into a rhythm here with her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=443.4s	443.4	 Easy. She's really excited by the treats. Sit. Yes. I'm just going to ignore when she gets extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=450.2s	450.2	 pushy like that, but that's actually interesting. She wasn't like that last time I saw her, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=453.9s	453.9	 Looks like she's gotten a bit peppier. Good. So I like that she's like following me wherever I go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=459.1s	459.1	 here. I don't love the jumping, but attention supersedes everything. So that's good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=465.7s	465.7	 Superseeds everything. So that's good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=471.3s	471.3	 Yes. Here. Yes. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=481.0s	481.0	 Yes. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=487.0s	487.0	 Here. Yes. Okay. Good job. Pretty nice. Looks like she's done really well with heel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=497.8s	497.8	 This time has gone on. She was very focused right there. I was able to turn with her and she remained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=502.2s	502.2	 focused. Now I wonder if she can do it in a more practical situation, like in a straight line
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=506.0s	506.0	 without getting too far ahead of me. Look at me. Come on. You're doing great. Here. I'm also avoiding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=513.2s	513.2	 using treats in my hand, trying to use hand signals with her here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=519.3s	519.3	 Kona, you are a good girl. Come here. Oh, good. Here. Yes. Look at that prance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=527.4s	527.4	 I'm going to steal a few extra steps here. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=531.9s	531.9	 Okay. Good work. I love that. I mean, a jogger went by, she glanced at the jogger. I was able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=536.6s	536.6	 to get her attention. I don't even think I had to ask for her attention. Barely. She was just like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=540.4s	540.4	 oh yeah, I'm supposed to pay attention to you. So her heels looking really good. Let me check in on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=544.6s	544.6	 her. Come and stay. Stay. You can see she's a very focused dog right now. She is not easily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=554.4s	554.4	 distracted by this type of environment. Yes. Look at me. Okay. Yes. Very good. Well done.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=569.4s	569.4	 Can you pause up? Stay. What? Okay. Good girl. She does pause up. I love it. That is really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=580.5s	580.5	 wait, no, not pause up on me. Yes. Good. You saw some of that jumping earlier. It's actually good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=587.0s	587.0	 when a dog knows how to do something like jumping so that you can have them do it only when you ask,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=592.2s	592.2	 because there are times where you do want your dog to put their paws up on something. If you wanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=595.7s	595.7	 to teach him a trick like this anyway, let's see if she remembers how to take a bow. Can you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=600.9s	600.9	 can you take a bow? I don't know if I need to lure her. Stay. Oh, she remembers. Stay. Here. Okay. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=609.8s	609.8	 see what we got to do. Stay. Yes. Wait. Okay. Good girl. Nice job. So it looks like she needs a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=618.6s	618.6	 polishing up on holding the position there, but that's okay. We can do that right now. Yes. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=626.2s	626.2	 Okay. Yes. Good girl. We've got a person walking over here. That's normal. That's just a person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=633.4s	633.4	 walking. How you doing? Come here. Come on. Come. Good girl. Sit. Oh, come on. Come. She was thrown
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=645.6s	645.6	 off so much that she wouldn't sit because she was way too distracted by the pedestrian walking by.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=650.5s	650.5	 And so then I took a step back and asked for something even easier. Like, look at me. I got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=654.8s	654.8	 a glance from her. Once I had her eyes, she was willing to pay attention. Look at me. Yes. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=660.7s	660.7	 girl. Spin. Spin. Look at that spin. That was pretty great. I wonder if she remembers how to hug. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=672.5s	672.5	 Stay. What? I remember her being a lot smaller. Okay. Good girl. She's doing pretty amazing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=684.1s	684.1	 but as you can see, she still gets thrown off when people or dogs suddenly come into her area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=689.1s	689.1	 And if you look at this pathway over here, you can see that it's packed with people and dogs and all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=694.0s	694.0	 kinds of distractions, but I feel comfortable now seeing where her current skill level is. I feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=698.0s	698.0	 like she's ready for a bigger challenge. I've intentionally chosen this area here just so I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=702.6s	702.6	 have a way to retreat. Should she become unmanageable? If you were teaching your own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=706.7s	706.7	 dog how to walk in a little bit more of a congested situation like this, you would practice on short
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=711.7s	711.7	 stretches here like we're about to do. She's actually an Irish doodle. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=719.1s	719.1	 doing training with her. This is a classic example of how you can't plan for everything in public.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=724.5s	724.5	 You're out here with one training lesson in mind, and then someone stops to talk to you. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=728.9s	728.9	 this gentleman wanted to have a chat about dogs and I became a little distracted and Brie was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=733.5s	733.5	 Hey, there's horses behind you. And I'm like, Oh, great. Cause the last thing you want to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=737.3s	737.3	 is have your dog spook some horses. Good girl. Very good. Yes. You're doing great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=749.4s	749.4	 Looks like we have some bikes coming at close range here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=754.2s	754.2	 Come here. Good girl. I'm going to keep her on my left side. Yes. Good. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=760.9s	760.9	 Yes. Very good. Come on. Let's go. Easy. Kona. See if I just stay on the path, I risk overwhelming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=773.0s	773.0	 her and I don't want to do that. So that's why I'm going on the path short periods of time at first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=777.8s	777.8	 Okay. I'm going to go off the path over here. No. Sit. Yes. She got in a jumpy mood. So I wanted to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=787.4s	787.4	 give her something to do that could earn her a reward. Cause all she was saying there was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=791.6s	791.6	 give me that treat. I really want that. She was getting a little impatient. So now we have a dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=795.4s	795.4	 I'm going to create a little distance here. We know Kona really loves dogs. Good girl. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=803.4s	803.4	 Good job. Look at me. Hi. Come here. Girl. Look at me. Yes. Took her a second there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=814.4s	814.4	 So I wanted her to, but you know, it's reasonable for her to check out a dog. We still have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=819.8s	819.8	 little dog behind us. We have another one coming up here. Who's super fluffy and adorable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=824.2s	824.2	 probably related to Kona. Yes. Well done. So while her leash pulling is there, the emphasis of her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=831.8s	831.8	 training right now, in my opinion, at least is encouraging her to walk a bit slower from time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=835.6s	835.6	 to time to be tolerant of minor tension. Sometimes it can't be all or nothing. See those turns. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=841.0s	841.0	 doing great on those turns. Yes. Going to try to preempt and acknowledge her success before she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=847.4s	847.4	 jumps up from excitement. Another real world distraction. Hey puppy. There. I just have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=852.4s	852.4	 instinct to pick up a dog where I can just cause I know nothing about the dog that's approaching.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=856.2s	856.2	 So I just like to play it safe. Even in this case, it appeared to be like a super young puppy, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=860.4s	860.4	 she would have been fine. I think what would have happened if I'd had her on the ground is we would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=863.6s	863.6	 have just had a rambunctious play session. Probably that can also get pretty chaotic.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=867.7s	867.7	 We've got some roller blades coming up. Roller blades can be a tricky thing for a lot of dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=872.6s	872.6	 And so right now I'm rewarding more or less for a loose heel or just generally attentive behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=879.8s	879.8	 Yes. I am using a lot of treats with her today just to keep her extra engaged and excited about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=884.9s	884.9	 this particular training session. Yes. Very good. You're doing great. Well done. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=898.6s	898.6	 Girl. Kona. Come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=905.3s	905.3	 Yes. I'll give her a treat for that one. That was a nice long heel right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=909.5s	909.5	 I didn't have to use treats the whole time. Kona. Come. Good. And see, I just, that's the thing you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=916.1s	916.1	 really want to be sure of that you can call your dog back to you. She's so responsive to that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=921.1s	921.1	 Kona. Come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=925.8s	925.8	 Good girl. Like to get her warmed up with some sit stays here. Sit. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=935.4s	935.4	 Well done. Okay. Love how she waits for that release too. Isn't that nice? Good work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=941.9s	941.9	 So it'd be great if I could get her to do a sit stay around a dog. She'll do a sit stay around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=946.2s	946.2	 a barking dog, which we hear in the background. Stay. At not even eight months old, Kona was able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=955.3s	955.3	 to sit and hold her stay as a dog just feet away, walk past her. Stay here. Look at me. Yes. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=965.8s	965.8	 Let's go. And she was super compliant when I asked her to walk away at the end. May all of your dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=970.4s	970.4	 be this easy to teach or not because then you won't watch my videos. Okay. But I really want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=976.8s	976.8	 see how she's doing on frisbee in this very public environment right next to this path right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=982.0s	982.0	 It'd be great to see if we could get her to make another catch before the day is up. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=986.1s	986.1	 I'm just trying to get her warmed up with tug. I love that tug. All right. Let go. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=992.6s	992.6	 Yeah. Good. She just needs a little bit more confidence with biting the frisbee.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=997.3s	997.3	 Good. That always gets me excited when the dog will focus on play over another dog that's nearby.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1005.5s	1005.5	 Kona, come on girl. Yes. Good. Good. Seeing tug really encourages them to be more confident.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1017.1s	1017.1	 She is such a clutz. Yes. Anytime she goes for it, we praise her as though she actually caught it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1024.5s	1024.5	 Good. Go. Yes. Good girl. Yes. There you go. What is that? Four catches today. Her attention on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1031.9s	1031.9	 the frisbee right now is fantastic. If you can get your dog really paying attention to you for a toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1037.3s	1037.3	 this intently in this type of environment, you can really use that to your advantage in so many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1042.6s	1042.6	 different situations moving forward. Go to trinom.com slash Zach to get 50% off of a two week trial of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1047.9s	1047.9	 Nom Nom. Subscribe to this channel and follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok. Get both of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Qj1uWoYUY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=1052.5s	1052.5	 books and click thumbs up for Kona. She did awesome. I'll have all of the links below. Good job, Kona.
