https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today we're going to get out and about in Alaska. What could possibly go wrong?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=4.1s	4.1	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog and I'm going to show you how I train her from day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=9.8s	9.8	 one. Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 up anywhere. Subscribe and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode. When you put into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=19.8s	19.8	 motion an approach based on love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=26.0s	26.0	 Inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 Okay, spoiler alert. This video does contain our most intense fall hike of all time. You're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=37.2s	37.2	 kidding me. It's a fall hike themed super chewer box. How appropriate for today's lesson. Go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=43.7s	43.7	 So if your dog is the kind of dog that tends to destroy normal dog toys, Super Chewer is for you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 They'll send you two crazy tough toys for your Super Chewer dog every single month. And if your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=54.1s	54.1	 dog ever does manage to destroy a toy, they'll even replace it with something else. You always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=58.7s	58.7	 get top notch treats and shoes too. So I'll use these throughout the month to train inertia. Who
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=63.4s	63.4	 knows what if your dog tends to like soft and fluffy toys, there's nothing like a bark box.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=68.3s	68.3	 Bark box is a monthly subscription box too. And they have the most awesome, creative plush toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=73.5s	73.5	 you've ever seen. There's a whole scene on the bottom of the shoe, but it's not just a boot.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 It squeaks. Go get it. Oh, she's going to love these. And you get one shoe in your bark box too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=84.1s	84.1	 And maple syrup. That's cool. Okay. Go get it. All of you can get a free extra month of bark box
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=91.7s	91.7	 or Super Chewer by going to barkbox.com slash dog training or super chewer.com slash dog training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=97.5s	97.5	 I'm going to have links below. Okay. I get the point. Go get it. Today's a pretty exciting day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 because we are going to take a hike into the rural wild mountains of Alaska. This is going to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=110.9s	110.9	 one of a kind hike for Bri, inertia and me. My big question is which inertia are we going to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=116.9s	116.9	 today? Are we going to get the very well-behaved perfect angel inertia? Or are we going to get the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=121.9s	121.9	 wild and crazy inertia? Who's just like, I've got to, I've just got to do everything at one time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=128.2s	128.2	 That one, second one. You think so? Yeah. I mean, that kind of inertia is pretty fun at least. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=133.9s	133.9	 So we are in like the deep interior of Alaska. You might remember recently, we took a long free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 walk on the beach because I was able to keep inertia on a really long lead and I was able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=144.2s	144.2	 to pretty much let her run around and explore wherever she wanted to. And so today I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=148.6s	148.6	 really comfortable using the very long lead because we're in pretty wild terrain out here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=153.8s	153.8	 I mean, this place is teeming with bears and moose everywhere. So I want to keep her a bit closer to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=158.7s	158.7	 me. So I'm going to be using a six foot leash instead. So that's why this is kind of a hybrid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=163.3s	163.3	 walk. I still want her to enjoy herself, have a good time without her having to focus on strict
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=167.8s	167.8	 rules more or less. So that's kind of the goal today. It is late August and we are cold. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=173.3s	173.3	 actually like ice forming being born and raised in the Southern United States. I can really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=178.3s	178.3	 appreciate this. This is nice. Today. We're equipped with bear bells and bear spray to try and keep the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=184.0s	184.0	 bears away. So inertia still has to have some level of leash manners today, but we have to balance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=188.9s	188.9	 that with also letting her check everything out here. It's clear that inertia is distracted by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=193.1s	193.1	 these dogs nearby. So I'm going to let her check them out and satisfy some of that curiosity. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=197.1s	197.1	 once she's had a chance to get a good look and a sniff, I'll still attempt to call her back to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=200.9s	200.9	 This is a great chance for her to practice resisting those urges and paying attention to me when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=205.6s	205.6	 distracted. Come good. Stay. I know. So curious. There you go. Good job. All right, let's do this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=215.0s	215.0	 You might notice there's no trees around us. We're too high for trees to grow. Come on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=220.0s	220.0	 switch back. Walks like this are great for quality of life for your dog because dogs seem to find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=225.1s	225.1	 wonderful gratification when they get the smell and just be in new places. Seeing a new place is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=229.4s	229.4	 fun for a dog, just like it is for us humans. I say it all the time, but it really is important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=234.1s	234.1	 to train in a variety of settings often. Inertia come here. Good. Okay. You can see how she smells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 a different type of plant life over here. All the other dogs, maybe a bear or a moose. Who knows what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=248.5s	248.5	 she's smelling, but she's enjoying herself. And since I don't want to completely throw my training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=253.0s	253.0	 out the window, we're going to practice come when called while she's distracted by a ground scent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=257.0s	257.0	 This can be one of the most difficult things to call your dog off of if they're really into a scent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=261.8s	261.8	 Inertia, hey, come. Yes. Good job. So that's good. You know, just throwing in this little test. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=270.1s	270.1	 don't want to do that constantly with her on this walk, but I want to know that she comes to me when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=274.1s	274.1	 she's distracted by a ground scent. Even walking on these narrow trails like this requires a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=279.7s	279.7	 team building and trust. I mean, there are literally parts of this trail where one wrong step and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=284.4s	284.4	 could fall down the mountain and it not turn out very well. We have to really be able to trust each
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=289.4s	289.4	 other. And this is a great way to build that teamwork between me and inertia. So I appreciate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=294.8s	294.8	 this opportunity. This is so weird. We found a lake in the middle of a mountain. This is an alpine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=299.3s	299.3	 lake. What's an alpine lake mean? I think it just means a lake in the top of a mountain. Oh, okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=303.8s	303.8	 Let's go check out the lake. It has that like bluish hue to it. Is that because it's glacier water?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=310.0s	310.0	 It's so clear. Look at all that hail in your fur. I know. Can you shake off? You're getting all wet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=316.9s	316.9	 There you go. Good. I knew shake off would come in handy. Hail in August. I know. Okay. So we got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=323.7s	323.7	 rained out a little bit. We thought the weather was going to be better. It happens, but we were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=327.7s	327.7	 worried about the trails becoming unsafe on our return because of all the moisture and it's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=333.3s	333.3	 dirt trail. So we didn't want to be slipping off the mountains. When we got here, I swear that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=337.7s	337.7	 mountain was green and now it's white. That is trippy. She doesn't care at all that it's raining.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=343.6s	343.6	 No, she's like, let's go keep hiking. Why did we stop? I know. Looks like the rain's letting up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=347.8s	347.8	 and there's some more area for us to explore. So we're going to go check it out. And you might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=351.8s	351.8	 recall that we've given inertia a chance to explore so many different types of environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=355.9s	355.9	 from Alaskan beaches to the Gulf of Mexico, dense city environments in Atlanta and the French quarter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 in New Orleans, pumpkin patches, riverbanks, and on and on. Once you've taken your dog to a few novel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=367.2s	367.2	 places, you might expect them to always behave the same way in a new place. But in order to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=371.5s	371.5	 teach your dog to be reliable, you got to take them to so many dramatically different places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=375.8s	375.8	 And that's one of the many things we're showing you how to do firsthand in this series. Come here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=380.2s	380.2	 heel. Come here, muddy dog. Oh my gosh. Good switch. Good. Lie down. Good. Stand. I'll tell you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=387.8s	387.8	 what, brief. Why don't you drill us and give us some random stuff that we can do here? Okay. High
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=391.7s	391.7	 five. Hey, inertia. Come. Good switch. Stay high five. Yeah. Good. Good job. You did stand. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=405.6s	405.6	 going to give you a treat for that. Get your tail. Hey, inertia, get your tail.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=411.4s	411.4	 Yes. She's trying. Get it. Get your tail. I'll take it. She struggles with that one, but I think that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=417.7s	417.7	 was a pretty good effort. Good girl. Look at how dirty she is. I know. Adventure dog. I'm trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=424.1s	424.1	 avoid ones on the ground. Hang on. I'm going to back stall. Stay. Stall. Stay. Yes. Okay. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=436.5s	436.5	 Wow. Good. All right. Let's put your leash back on. Let's quit while we're ahead, right? It's only been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=442.8s	442.8	 in the last few weeks where I'm even comfortable enough to take off her leash to do a trick like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=446.5s	446.5	 that, but I'm still doing it in moderation. I mean, with this being Alaska wilderness,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=453.3s	453.3	 I want to be extra careful with her right now, but in small chunks, I'll test her off leash. When I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=457.8s	457.8	 really confident she's going to listen to me. And since I know her so well, I was pretty confident
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=461.4s	461.4	 she'd listen. So practicing your training in new places like this makes it more likely that they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=466.2s	466.2	 going to do these types of things when you ask them to do them elsewhere, right? So that's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=470.3s	470.3	 whole point of practicing so many places as often as you can really. So what I'm hoping you get from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=475.7s	475.7	 this is that it's normal for it to take time for dogs to be highly obedient and new and interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=481.7s	481.7	 places. We have got to tell you guys something that happened yesterday to us. And it was one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=488.1s	488.1	 the most interesting Alaskan experiences I've ever had. I was playing frisbee with inertia in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=493.0s	493.0	 baseball field near our Airbnb and Bree is still in the car while I'm practicing on the baseball
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=497.8s	497.8	 field. And all of a sudden I hear Zach grab inertia. So I don't even look, right? I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=502.6s	502.6	 I hear grab inertia in that urgency. I immediately got control of her and then I look behind me to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=507.7s	507.7	 see what it is. And I could not believe it. It was a runaway moose. It seems the moose had run into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=514.1s	514.1	 an American flag and it got draped over his eyes. So he couldn't really see anything. He was panicked.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=518.9s	518.9	 He was freaking out. So we're in the presence of a panic moose, which if you know anything about moose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=523.0s	523.0	 is not a good situation at all. As I'm trying to take cover, I yelled at Bree, Hey, Bree, film that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=529.1s	529.1	 Of course he did. And that's where this picks up. We definitely felt terrible for this moose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=534.2s	534.2	 because he has no way to get this flag off of his head, but he's just walking around the parking lot.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=538.3s	538.3	 At this point, I'm taking cover with inertia here and he starts walking directly at us. I'm taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=544.7s	544.7	 cover in the dugout, which you'll see here in just a second. Now Bree's keeping safe and then he bumps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=548.8s	548.8	 into the fence. I'm behind this wall right here that you can see and I've got inertia and I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=553.6s	553.6	 holding her trying to keep her quiet and she was really good and it's completely covered. I can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=557.4s	557.4	 see a thing, but all I hear is like a trotting horse or something, but it sounds like a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=563.4s	563.4	 big horse. And so then he continues to walk, but you know, he's still unpredictable. Then he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=568.0s	568.0	 going to bump into this little barricade here. Yeah, he just got bumping into stuff, which was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=573.0s	573.0	 scaring him of course, because then he was like, Oh shoot, what is that? Yeah, I know. He couldn't see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=576.9s	576.9	 where he was going. And then he kicks the fence there because he bumps into it. What we did find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=581.4s	581.4	 out is they did call the police, a neighbor did. He followed up with us a little bit later. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=585.5s	585.5	 that's the last I heard is they were trying to find him in order to help him out there. While we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=589.4s	589.4	 were in the area that we did warn a few other people that there was a moose. Apparently that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=593.5s	593.5	 good etiquette here in Alaska. When you see one, by the way, that was the 10th moose I saw on our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=598.7s	598.7	 trip here. In general, moose are going to leave you alone. I mean, they don't bother you, but again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=602.2s	602.2	 this was an extraordinary situation in that the moose was in a heightened state of panic.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=608.3s	608.3	 Right. And blind. So he was just running around, running into stuff. I can say that right before I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=613.4s	613.4	 grabbed inertia, I said inertia, stay, picked her up and then, you know, took cover in the dugout.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=619.4s	619.4	 Well, yeah, because a lot of people do ask about what to do with their dogs in a wildlife encounter.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=624.4s	624.4	 I can tell you practicing that emergency stay came in really handy. It's a shame we weren't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=628.6s	628.6	 able to get it on camera, but we had bigger priorities like staying alive. But that emergency
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=632.6s	632.6	 stay came in handy practicing come when called is something that you can do. In that case,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=636.5s	636.5	 I didn't have to because she was close enough. That's why you practice with distractions. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=640.1s	640.1	 mean, I can't help but think that some of that training we did in the French quarter in New
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=643.0s	643.0	 Orleans with the mules. Oh, yeah, with the mules. You know, yeah, because if I hadn't trained around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=648.2s	648.2	 that, she would have likely totally freaked out. I mean, we've done our fair of ungulate training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=652.2s	652.2	 giraffes, mules, now moose, just need to throw some elephants in there and we should be good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=657.5s	657.5	 Looks like we've got some precipitation coming back. So I think we'll quit while we're ahead here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=661.8s	661.8	 and end this lesson. It started off like, oh, gosh, I don't think we're going to be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=665.4s	665.4	 get much done. But I mean, from a training perspective, I'm thrilled with her. And from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=669.4s	669.4	 a personal perspective, I just can't believe how amazing it is out here. All of you can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=674.9s	674.9	 a free extra month of bark box or super chewer by going to bark box.com slash dog training or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=680.3s	680.3	 super chewer.com slash dog training. I'm going to have links below. Subscribe to this channel and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=684.9s	684.9	 get a copy of my book guide to a well behaved dog. Follow me on Instagram too. I'll have all of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXi071GMlDc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=255&pp=iAQB&t=689.4s	689.4	 links in the description below. I can't wait for our next video. See you next time.
