https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's a huge day. It's time to start phasing in off leash training with Inertia. Can you believe it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=6.0s	6.0	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=12.3s	12.3	 Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=17.8s	17.8	 Subscribe and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode. When you put into motion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=22.2s	22.2	 an approach based on love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion. This is Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=28.7s	28.7	 Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=33.6s	33.6	 Guys, today's lesson is going to be huge. I'm going to show you how I address off-leash training with Inertia, my own dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=40.4s	40.4	 Doing things like regular training and frequent playing and just generally giving your dog a high quality of life is likely to keep your dog more engaged with you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=48.6s	48.6	 Which is why Pupford made an entire line of products dedicated to highly engaging items for your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=54.8s	54.8	 These are the most high end dog chews that you can get. I think the reason dogs love these so much is that they're completely natural.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=61.2s	61.2	 Like take these beef tendon chews for example. I mean you can tell exactly what these are and so can dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=67.0s	67.0	 Why do you guys like the weirdest stuff? Check out the Split Elk Antler Chew here. They're actually split to make them softer and easier to chew on for your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=75.8s	75.8	 These Himalayan dog chews have three ingredients in them. Yak milk, salt, and lime juice. Kind of sounds good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=82.4s	82.4	 Check out all of Pupford's chews in their Engaged line. They've got a great deal too on multi-packs if you want to try a variety to see what your dog likes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=89.7s	89.7	 I'm going to have a special link in the description below. Let's go to Alaska!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 Off-leash training is a huge step for most dogs. It's true that some dogs are more reliable off-leash and do tend to stay near their people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=102.1s	102.1	 But in Inertia's case, well she's a pretty average dog in this respect and she's definitely going to make me work to teach her to be reliable off-leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=110.8s	110.8	 Inertia, can you leave that alone? Come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=116.9s	116.9	 Yes. It's like it just takes her eight seconds to process it. That said, Inertia is at the point in her training now where I am methodically phasing in more off-leash training in new places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=127.5s	127.5	 Notice that I said off-leash in new places. That's because most dogs are a lot less likely to listen to you when in a new place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=136.3s	136.3	 So you have to do extensive training to prepare for that long tail of distractions that's likely to occur in the real world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 Throughout our training so far, you've seen how we've been using a long lead to manage Inertia in new places as well as less controlled places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=150.2s	150.2	 Because this still gives her the freedom to explore her world. Using a long lead like this can be a really helpful intermediate step while you're working on teaching your dog to listen off-leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=159.4s	159.4	 During early off-leash training sessions, I like to wait to take the long lead off until she's had a good bit of exercise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=165.6s	165.6	 The reason for this is that it's more challenging for a dog to listen when they have all of that pent-up energy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=170.5s	170.5	 In Inertia's case, if I had just immediately let her off-leash as soon as we got here, it might be more challenging for her to resist running and investigating every little thing that she wanted to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=179.2s	179.2	 Since being anywhere new might be absolutely overwhelmingly exciting for some dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=184.4s	184.4	 By giving her some exercise to get that initial layer of energy out and giving her a little bit of time in the environment to satisfy some of her natural curiosity about what's around her,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=194.0s	194.0	 she'll be more likely to listen to me without being distracted by wondering about everything in this new place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=200.6s	200.6	 And make no mistake about it, dogs know when that lead is on versus when it's off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=207.2s	207.2	 So she still understands that she has a lead on her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=210.4s	210.4	 Also taking advantage of the fact that she comes to me so reliably when playing fetch to really solidify come when called.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=217.2s	217.2	 So watch, look how fast she's running to me right now. Looking right at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=221.0s	221.0	 Come. So I'm saying come when she's doing that very deliberate sprint towards me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=227.2s	227.2	 So she's had a good round of exercise. We're going to go off leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=230.8s	230.8	 Now you might notice we're here in a baseball field, which is pretty fenced.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=234.4s	234.4	 It's still a controlled environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 But here's the thing. She doesn't realize that she doesn't know that she can't run for 20 miles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=240.6s	240.6	 That's why it's important to make this part of your off leash training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=243.4s	243.4	 Go to new places where your dog is still under control.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=247.1s	247.1	 You might have to get creative with this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=248.6s	248.6	 You may have to drive a few miles outside of town, but I'm sure you can find something.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=253.5s	253.5	 I want to do some training on come and stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=255.6s	255.6	 Those are the two most critical skills, especially when you're doing off leash training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=259.8s	259.8	 Notice her body language right now. You can see she's looking around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=263.0s	263.0	 She's curious about her environment, but she's generally pretty relaxed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 Let me verify that I can get her attention on me in her shell.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=270.0s	270.0	 That was pretty good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 So I always like to do that because it's a good way to measure our dog's mood.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=276.2s	276.2	 And since we're currently in Alaska, our freeze dried salmon treats are the perfect choice for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=280.7s	280.7	 this training session. And if you're wondering why I'm even using treats at all, it's because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=284.8s	284.8	 I've changed a major variable. I've now taken that lead off and I'm asking her to listen to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=289.7s	289.7	 Remember dogs know when that lead is on versus when it's not.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=293.8s	293.8	 Stay. I'm going to give her a stay. I'm going to walk out here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=299.4s	299.4	 Come. Good girl. Nice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=303.9s	303.9	 And a heel for extra credit. I love it. Okay. Okay. Good. We have a flock of seagulls.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=310.2s	310.2	 Look at inertia's reaction. She's already noticed them, but she's holding her stay really well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=314.7s	314.7	 Some of inertia's favorite distractions happen to be things in the air like birds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=319.0s	319.0	 and airplanes. So we have a lot of that here today. Inertia come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=327.5s	327.5	 Lie down, stand. Let's try to stand,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=330.9s	330.9	 stay while I walk away again, completely off leash. That is the major change here from past lessons.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=337.5s	337.5	 Lie down, stand, stay, come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=344.6s	344.6	 I guess I just can't help but mix it up like that to be unpredictable. Good girl. Good. You want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=349.5s	349.5	 take a break? So let's try come when called as we walk around out here. I mean, there may be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=353.5s	353.5	 situation where it's appropriate to do an off leash hike in a rural area. At some point, I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=357.4s	357.4	 to make sure that she comes back to me as we walk along the field. So maybe I want to turn around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=362.1s	362.1	 and call her to come back this way. Inertia come. Whoa. Good girl. Lie down. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=374.0s	374.0	 And we're just showing off with lie down. That's all. Since she's behaving so well right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=377.8s	377.8	 I want to give her some time to, you know, explore the environment. She was really enjoying those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=381.9s	381.9	 clovers over there. So I'm going to let her go back to it. Again, we're just looking for general
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=386.1s	386.1	 compliance. We're trying to keep the training session very upbeat and pleasant for her. So she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=390.2s	390.2	 doesn't feel like, oh gosh, I can't do anything. We want her to feel like she can still do some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=394.5s	394.5	 things. By the way, I based this lesson on a section of my book guide to a well behaved dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=399.7s	399.7	 Check out that book to help you with the most common behavior problems. Say we're walking and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=404.2s	404.2	 I notice a distraction in the distance. I mean, it could be a bear, which is the reason I'm wearing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=408.9s	408.9	 bear spray here. Maybe I need to put her into a sudden stay, for example. Inertia stay, lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=416.2s	416.2	 Good. Good job. Yes. Good work. Okay. So I think it's a good idea to practice these spontaneous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=425.0s	425.0	 training sessions, especially with stay and come when they're not expecting it so much. Inertia,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=430.0s	430.0	 come. Yes. Good. Now I snag this rope over here out of the bag. I'm going to use it as a surprise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=441.9s	441.9	 distraction here in a minute. I'm going to just let her tune out and walk around. Okay. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=447.9s	447.9	 Go on. Go. Inertia come. Good girl. Lie down. Stay. Look at me. Here. Come. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=466.8s	466.8	 Lie down. Stay. You can see the genuine surprise there. She didn't know it was coming.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=471.9s	471.9	 Okay. Good work. Here you go. I like that she wants to play. We'll go ahead and let her play with it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=479.8s	479.8	 She loves her tug toy. Good girl. And so she's really focused today, doing a good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=485.2s	485.2	 Fortunately, it's a good day of training for her. You never know with inertia. Kind of cool when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=489.7s	489.7	 have a toy this powerful. This isn't really like her. She doesn't usually get this obsessed with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=493.6s	493.6	 toys. So I actually like it. She's behaving like an actual border collie right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=499.0s	499.0	 If you have a dog that likes to play tug like this, use this currency. You don't always have to use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=503.5s	503.5	 treats. So it's important to use the currency that your dog values most. Let's do another surprise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=508.6s	508.6	 drill with her. This time I'm going to use the frisbee. We're going to do some off leash frisbee,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=512.6s	512.6	 which wow, awesome. Right? Good job. Very good. Now what's what I do this time. I want to do an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=518.4s	518.4	 emergency come when called. Let go. Ready. Go. Baked her out. Come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=524.3s	524.3	 No, come. There we go. Come on. Lie down. Stay. Come around. Ready. Go. Inertia. Come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=540.7s	540.7	 Come on. Good girl. Here it is. Yes. Ready. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=547.8s	547.8	 Great job, girl. Even with some people around here, she's getting a little distracted.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=551.9s	551.9	 But she's regaining that focus. So I appreciate that. Go. Inertia. Come. Yes. Good girl. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=560.9s	560.9	 see the confusion, but she's still honoring come when called. The point of this is you want your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=566.9s	566.9	 dog to know that they still need to listen to things like come when called, even when they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=571.4s	571.4	 in that confused state of mind. In her mind, she was virtually positive that I was going to throw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=576.0s	576.0	 the frisbee there, but she heard me say come and she came running back. She was like, oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=580.5s	580.5	 come on. Let's go. And since I have her so into this tug toy and I have her off leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=588.5s	588.5	 I'm going to use this as a reward here. Do some more training. Good job. You're doing great right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=593.6s	593.6	 now. Come on. Come. Lie down. Stay. Okay. Get it. So we've got some dogs in the distance. What a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=610.4s	610.4	 good opportunity to practice off leash training in the presence of other dogs. If you've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=614.3s	614.3	 following our series, you'll understand that the ultimate distraction for inertia are other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=620.1s	620.1	 So we're going to go over here. We're going to walk up near the fence where she sees the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=623.7s	623.7	 dogs over there in the distance. She gave them a look. Okay. Come. Good girl. Yes. Do you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=635.1s	635.1	 this or do you want, you want to just smell fine. In her, she's just spotted another dog. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=642.7s	642.7	 So I'm seeing a great opportunity to practice getting her more focused while in the presence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=647.2s	647.2	 of other dogs over here. It looks like I've got her attention. Hey, you want to play frisbee? Come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=651.4s	651.4	 around. Ready? Go. So I was able to get her attention off the dog onto me to play frisbee.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=656.4s	656.4	 That's always good. Let's see if this continues. I'm going to deliberately play at close range
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=660.8s	660.8	 to these other dogs. She hasn't forgotten about the dog. You know, she's still keeping track.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=665.0s	665.0	 Stay. Come around. Yes. Go. It's one of the reasons I like activities like fetch and frisbee gives
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=673.0s	673.0	 them that outlet of running and chasing and jumping and biting all that kind of fun stuff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=676.9s	676.9	 they like to do. And again, another great opportunity to practice come while dogs are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=681.1s	681.1	 right behind me. This is the most distracted she's been all day and she's really doing well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=687.0s	687.0	 Remember inertia is a very social dog. She can be interested in the other dog. There's nothing wrong
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=691.3s	691.3	 with that. She just can't run and chase them without permission. If your dog will behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=695.0s	695.0	 at closer and closer range to the things that distract them, you'll know that you're making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=700.6s	700.6	 progress on your training. Take a break. Lie down. Inertia can be great at taking breaks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=706.6s	706.6	 Seek out opportunities like this where you can easily control the variables in your training. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=712.2s	712.2	 here we have the fences in place so she can't immediately access them. I'm able to exercise her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=717.4s	717.4	 just prior so she's more receptive to listening. In other words, these are the things you have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=721.2s	721.2	 do to set your dog up for success. There's a group of young people over there in the adjacent field.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=726.6s	726.6	 She also loves children. Inertia stay. Yes. Very good. Like that she produced her posture there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=736.6s	736.6	 And we'll go ahead and give her a reward. And since we have this group of kids over here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=740.5s	740.5	 I'm going to put her back on lead here. Never be afraid to do that. I'm going to go do some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=743.8s	743.8	 training at closer range. And even though we have a fence, I still want to have her on lead here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=749.4s	749.4	 because I don't want her to experience running 50 feet away from me and not listening. Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=755.7s	755.7	 Come. Yeah. Good girl. So she saw the dog again, just to, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=761.4s	761.4	 she's more distracted by the dog than the kids, I suppose. Let's see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=766.6s	766.6	 Inertia. Here. Come. Good girl. Lie down. The high pitched sound of these children over here is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=773.5s	773.5	 definitely going to be a distraction. Come. Yeah. Good girl. I'm going to try everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=781.9s	781.9	 without the lead now. Lie down. Stay. Come. Doing great. Yes. Stay. Come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=798.2s	798.2	 Lie down. Stay. Even if you've been on top of your training, you have to keep in mind those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=805.5s	805.5	 outlier events can still happen. I mean, we're in Alaska, for example, a moose or a bear or an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=810.6s	810.6	 excited dog more likely could show up at any time. Come. I didn't even have to call it that time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=816.0s	816.0	 Okay. The distractions are out in full bloom now that we've been out here a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=819.8s	819.8	 So doing these initial practice sessions in areas that still have an extra layer of protection,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=824.7s	824.7	 like a fence, is really important when you're teaching your dog to listen to you no matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=828.6s	828.6	 what happens. Most people are way too quick to let their dogs off leash in uncontrolled settings.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=835.2s	835.2	 I see this especially with new puppy parents, since most puppies naturally have the tendency
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=839.4s	839.4	 to stay close and not wander off. But most puppies also grow up really fast and they might stay with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=844.6s	844.6	 you on one day, but suddenly get the urge to run and chase a bird the next. Your goal is to prevent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=849.4s	849.4	 your dog from ever experiencing getting away from you or at least as little as possible. That's why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=854.2s	854.2	 you shouldn't be afraid to go back to the long lead if your dog suddenly becomes overwhelmed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=858.4s	858.4	 Of course, if your dog has managed to get away from you in the past, you can still get this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=862.6s	862.6	 training done, but you're going to have to be very consistent and very deliberate about your training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=866.6s	866.6	 and doing the kinds of exercises we've done today. So if you're going to do this right,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=870.2s	870.2	 you can see off leash training requires extensive proofing and testing. Check out all of Pupford's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=876.6s	876.6	 chews and their engage line. I'm going to have a special link in the description below and sign
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=881.0s	881.0	 up for our completely free digital dog training course 30 day perfect pup. I'll have that link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=886.1s	886.1	 below. Subscribe to this channel and get a copy of my book guide to a well behaved dog. Follow me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=890.7s	890.7	 on Instagram too. I'll have all of the links in the description below. I can't wait for our next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WUUBVe3OGc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=256&pp=iAQB&t=895.6s	895.6	 video. See you next time.
