https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today, Inertia and I are going to show you how to train your dog to ring a bell to be let outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=5.0s	5.0	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=11.3s	11.3	 Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=16.8s	16.8	 Subscribe and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 When you put into motion an approach based on love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=25.9s	25.9	 This is Inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 There's a lot to training a dog, but really getting those fundamentals down to build upon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=36.2s	36.2	 is what's really going to set you up for success. In my completely free 30-day perfect pup course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=41.4s	41.4	 I'll give you a crash course and everything that you need to know to build a strong foundation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=46.8s	46.8	 We cover all of the really important stuff in that course like puppy biting and potty training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=51.5s	51.5	 how to train your dog all of the basics like leash walking and sit and stay, come when called,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=57.0s	57.0	 and much more. There's even an app that will let you keep track of your progress and have the entire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=61.8s	61.8	 course in your pocket so the lessons are with you whenever you need them. You really just take the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=67.2s	67.2	 time to practice what you learn in that course and implement it into your dog's daily life over the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=72.3s	72.3	 course of several weeks to several months depending on the skill. You'll find that you have a dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=76.9s	76.9	 actually listens to you and pays attention to you. The ultimate goal when you're training your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 is to have such strong communication with them that you can teach them virtually any new skill
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=87.0s	87.0	 without much effort at all because they simply understand your intent and what you're trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=91.2s	91.2	 teach them because of that strong foundation. I'm going to have links in the description where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=95.3s	95.3	 you can sign up for 30-day perfect pup and download the app. Remember, everything is completely free.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=101.1s	101.1	 PupFert also makes amazing treats. I'm going to be using these today and we'll see what kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=105.2s	105.2	 results we get with inertia on ringing a bell. Wouldn't it be great if your dog could let you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 know when they want to go outside? Well, honestly, they can. I mean, this is something that tends to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=114.1s	114.1	 happen pretty naturally with most dogs. Once you get to know your dog pretty well, you'll probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 notice that they're pretty good about letting you know in their own way when they want to go outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=122.6s	122.6	 But some people really like showing their dog how to ring a bell to be let outside anyway,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=127.6s	127.6	 and some dogs just love to play dead, I guess. I've never taught her this before, so we'll see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=133.0s	133.0	 she does. By the way, I have tons of advice not only about potty training issues, but all the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=138.0s	138.0	 common training problems people encounter with their dogs in my book, Guide to a Well-Behaved Dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=142.2s	142.2	 I'll have a link in the description where you can check it out. So I have a couple of different bells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=145.8s	145.8	 that we're going to be working with today, but I think we'll start with these bells right here that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=149.2s	149.2	 hang on the door. A lot of dogs can be nervous over loud sounds the first time they hear them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=154.6s	154.6	 so I'm trying not to be too erratic. But right now, inertia seems just more curious than anything,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=159.6s	159.6	 which is exactly where I want her. Look at that. See that? What is that? See? But look at that. Did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=167.4s	167.4	 you see how she backed away? I'm going to go ahead and give her a treat here just to try and get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=170.6s	170.6	 back into training homeostasis here. Lie down. Go on. Lie down. Good job. Good. So by pairing this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=180.2s	180.2	 noise and these sounds with a good treat here, you know, she's a lot more likely to stick around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=185.1s	185.1	 rather than back away. I mean, I saw her back away just that split second, and that was my cue to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 really easy and get her liking these bells rather than being apprehensive of them. This is how they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=196.1s	196.1	 going to be hanging in a moment. Yes. Good girl. Inertia is doing great with this so far. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=203.4s	203.4	 we can now move on to putting the bells on the door. So I'm hoping to break this lesson into two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=208.6s	208.6	 main parts. First, training inertia how to ring the bell, and then secondly, letting her know that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 when she rings the bell, she gets to go outside. There's a couple of ways we can do this. In general,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=218.3s	218.3	 I would think if you have this type of configuration where you have the bells hanging, you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 encourage your dog to nudge the bell with their nose instead of their paw because probably scratching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=227.1s	227.1	 at a wood door isn't exactly ideal. Unless they're really dainty with it, I mean, it could be, but I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=231.9s	231.9	 going to start with using Inertia's nose here, and I'll work on teaching her to use her paw later in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=236.8s	236.8	 this video. I'm going to encourage her to kind of sniff it. Remember, that's a dog's default when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=240.9s	240.9	 they're investigating something new and kind of give her permission. What's this? Look at it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=246.3s	246.3	 What is that? Yes. And she already knows kind of a basic touch. Yes. But a way to really teach your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=254.1s	254.1	 dog how to do this, maybe if they're having trouble, is to hold the treat up right at the bell,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 for example. Look at that. Yes. I always think it's kind of fun to see if you can get them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=262.4s	262.4	 do it without having to put a treat right there just to see where things stand. See, right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=268.7s	268.7	 her attention. Yes. Good girl. She's like, okay, good. I got it. You want me to sniff the bell.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=273.8s	273.8	 But actually, I'd like you to touch that bell. So let's see if she can do it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=280.0s	280.0	 Did you hear that whining there? A little anxious. Hey, Inertia, what's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=285.8s	285.8	 Yes. Even though it didn't ring, she made more contact with it that time. Really important to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 reward those tiny incremental successes. What's this? Yes. Good. So I want to give her an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=299.4s	299.4	 enthusiastic reward there because it actually made a sound. Yes. See that? She went up to it right on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=306.4s	306.4	 her own that time. I'm just going to be quiet. I'm not going to say anything here. I think she's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=309.8s	309.8	 to brainstorm on her own. Yes. Told you. Hey, Inertia, what's that? Yes. So I wanted to see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=318.8s	318.8	 she would brainstorm on her own, but with a little bit of a reminder there, she got it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=323.5s	323.5	 You know, try both with your dog. Yes. You can see here as she does that, I'm acknowledging that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=329.7s	329.7	 she's doing what I like and I'm following it up with a reward so that she is inspired to want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=334.9s	334.9	 interact with the bells here. I want her to interact with the bells a little bit more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 enthusiastically there so that I would have a chance of hearing them if I were in the other room.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=342.6s	342.6	 Inertia, what's that? Yes. I can hear that just fine. Okay. She's doing well with that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=348.1s	348.1	 but let's try it with this bell, this desk bell right here. And instead of having her use her nose,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=353.5s	353.5	 I'm going to attempt to teach her to use her paw. Again, I've never had a single lesson doing this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=358.7s	358.7	 so you're going to see the real thing here as it unfolds, but I'm feeling pretty confident that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=363.0s	363.0	 should learn it, but she has surprised me before. So we'll see. Let me get her warmed up with a shake.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 Shake. Good. Yes. Shake. Yes. Such a dainty shake today. What is that? Shake. Yes. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=381.1s	381.1	 you can't get better than that. That was really good. First attempt and she got it. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=389.5s	389.5	 yes. Good. Even though it didn't ring that time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=392.2s	392.2	 I still want to let her know that's what I'm looking for.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=394.6s	394.6	 Yes. Good. Did you see how she was brainstorming it? She's getting enough experience. She knows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=400.1s	400.1	 that, okay, dad's putting something in front of me. He's pointing at it. Looks like he wants me to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=403.9s	403.9	 do something with that. Yes. Again, making sure I reward when she's in the right direction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=414.6s	414.6	 Reward when she's in the right direction. Innershirt. Come. What's this? Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=423.7s	423.7	 You know, I just, I couldn't avoid like trying this. This is so much cuter to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=427.6s	427.6	 when they ring a bell like this. Yes. I swear. I mean, I feel like such a dog trainer right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=437.3s	437.3	 I'm going to scoot back a little bit. Let's see how much she can generalize this. Remember,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=441.8s	441.8	 every inch you move back makes it harder for your dog when you're teaching them something new.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=449.2s	449.2	 I'm going to give her one more chance there. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=455.7s	455.7	 Good girl. These freeze dried salmon treats are just amazing. Innershirt will do anything for them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=461.7s	461.7	 Now that inertia is getting the hang of this, it's time to show her that ringing the bells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=467.1s	467.1	 means that she gets to go outside. Yeah. Okay. Remember the two most common types of rewards or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=474.1s	474.1	 currencies that we use with our dogs are food and types of play like fetch or tug of war. But a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=480.2s	480.2	 third option is to use the environment itself, the world as the reward. And that's what we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=485.8s	485.8	 going to attempt to do here. Innershirt, you want to go outside? Look how excited she gets.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=491.1s	491.1	 I would say that's her way of saying yes. Hey, ring that bell. What's this? Yes. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=497.6s	497.6	 And so you can see she is eager to go right outside the minute the door opens. She likes to go all the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=502.5s	502.5	 way into the yard. Okay, go on and run around and chase chipmunks or squirrels or whatever it is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=507.9s	507.9	 which, Hey, if she's enjoying doing it, I'm happy. And she's even going potty. So it's working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=513.0s	513.0	 already. One thing I like to do too, just on a side note is practice come when called, when she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=518.3s	518.3	 really excited like this inertia, come. There it goes. Okay. I guess I should open the gate for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=526.6s	526.6	 purposes of this lesson. I'm going to do a few reps like this. Yes. So there you can see just a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=532.3s	532.3	 little nudge. I'm going to let her go out. She also likes going out and hanging out on the deck as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=536.3s	536.3	 well. She loves just looking at things out there. Okay. Come on. Come on back. Good girl. Yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=542.9s	542.9	 that was good. So I'm telling her ring the bell as she rings the bell here. Ring the bell. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=550.0s	550.0	 Good girl. Go on. Go. You can see how just using the environment like this can be satisfying and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=556.2s	556.2	 enough to incentivize your dog to do something you want them to do. Can you ring the bell?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=562.2s	562.2	 Yes, that was really good. So that was a big success. And on top of going outside, I'll go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=569.2s	569.2	 ahead and reward her with these puffer treats as well. Come here, girl. A lot of dogs are going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=575.4s	575.4	 pick this up very quickly as inertia did in this lesson, but to really teach your dog broadly what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=581.1s	581.1	 this concept is, it's a really good idea to insist that they ring the bell before you let them out on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=586.4s	586.4	 their normal potty break. So let's try. Bring your bell. Yes. Good girl. So just touching it and we'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=593.0s	593.0	 let her know we're going to go outside. Naturally, you're probably going to find that your dog starts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=598.2s	598.2	 ringing the bell just to go outside, even when they don't have to go potty. Nobody knows your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=602.9s	602.9	 dog like you do. So if you're pretty confident that they're just being pushy and they actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=606.9s	606.9	 don't need to relieve themselves outside, you don't have to honor their request every time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=611.2s	611.2	 The way I see it, your dog's allowed to ask to go outside and you as their parent are allowed to say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=616.2s	616.2	 yes or no. It's most common for people to ask me how to train a dog to do this skill with a brand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=621.4s	621.4	 new dog. And to be honest with you, I don't recommend that you teach a dog to ring a bell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=625.8s	625.8	 to be let outside. If your dog is new to potty training, that's because it is ultimately your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=630.7s	630.7	 responsibility to keep your dog on a schedule, especially during the potty training process and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=635.9s	635.9	 give them ample opportunities to go outside. In other words, it's not fair to say, Hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=640.5s	640.5	 you let me know when you have to go out. This works best with dogs that are already potty trained.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=645.3s	645.3	 Good luck teaching this to your dog and sign up for 30 day perfect pup and download the Pupford
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=649.9s	649.9	 app. Subscribe to this channel and follow us on Instagram and Tik Tok. Get a copy of my books too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LFPNYFEA5p0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=267&pp=iAQB&t=655.0s	655.0	 and we'll see you guys in the next episode.
