https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Getting a new dog is great. I mean it's one of the most exciting things ever and if you're like most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=4.4s	4.4	 people you'll get a new dog when you have some extra time to devote to them but ultimately there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=9.2s	9.2	 comes a time when your dog has to be comfortable being left alone. I'm going to show you some things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=14.0s	14.0	 you can do that will definitely help you make progress on that in this video. We've teamed up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 with Furbo dog camera which is a really great device that might help make this process a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=23.0s	23.0	 smoother for you and many dogs but it's not necessarily required. Furbo is a dynamic treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=28.4s	28.4	 tossing, motion alerting, bark detecting, artificially intelligent two-way communication,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=33.8s	33.8	 full HD camera that will help you keep your dog happy and safe. We might be experiencing the future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=40.3s	40.3	 of dog training. Oh goodness, does that mean people aren't going to need dog trainers anymore?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 You can use Furbo to modify your dog's behavior or you can use it just because it's extremely cool.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=52.8s	52.8	 Let's cover some ways that you can help your dog be more confident and relaxed while you're away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=58.5s	58.5	 You look pretty confident and relaxed right now, that's for sure. When you first introduce your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 to Furbo you should go very slowly and it's brand new to Inertia so I'm going to show you the process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=68.5s	68.5	 that I go through to get my own dog comfortable with Furbo. Furbo makes an electronic sound when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 it tosses treats that can cause skepticism with some dogs but there's usually a way to protect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=78.3s	78.3	 against that by going through these easy steps. In the spirit of going slowly my first order of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=83.5s	83.5	 business is to just have the Furbo make the sound and let Inertia know that that equals her getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=89.8s	89.8	 a treat. In other words, there are no treats in here right now. So it's going to play a sound,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=93.8s	93.8	 it sounds kind of like woo-hoo. So for right now I'm going to make sure I have some distance between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=99.7s	99.7	 the Furbo and her and she's not on leash, she's free to come and go as she pleases right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=105.3s	105.3	 So you can see we get this live feed right here and the Furbo is set up and you actually tap this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=113.5s	113.5	 Yes, good. See I'm just going to give her a treat manually right now. I want to really break this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 down. You really want to just assume your dog's going to be sensitive to it although most dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=125.1s	125.1	 really learn to love this. So I'm just going to run through this a few times organically.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=133.0s	133.0	 Yes, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=137.6s	137.6	 So it's clear here she's making the connection. See her looking at me right there? She's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=141.7s	141.7	 hey, this is the time when I usually get that treat, right? So far Inertia is showing no signs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=146.5s	146.5	 that she's nervous of the sound or anything like that. So I think we're ready to move on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=150.1s	150.1	 put the treats in the Furbo and see how she does. I'm actually going to put a few different kinds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=154.1s	154.1	 of treats in here and mix them up a little bit just to keep her guessing. This is going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=158.5s	158.5	 the first time where I actually hit the treat and her treat comes out. Whoa, jackpot. Look at that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=165.8s	165.8	 That's awesome. One of the great things about Furbo is sometimes it'll shoot out one treat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=170.5s	170.5	 sometimes it'll shoot out a whole bunch of treats like that and it really keeps your dog guessing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=175.1s	175.1	 This is variable reinforcement. It's actually more effective at keeping them interested and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=179.5s	179.5	 engaged over time. The treats are actually tossed out so that gives them lots of motion. So this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=184.9s	184.9	 an additional way other than just the sound that Furbo gets your dog's attention. And during this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=189.8s	189.8	 phase of introducing it, it's a good idea. Go ahead and put their meal in there. Like really get them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=194.1s	194.1	 used to it. Really let them know, look, this is something you can look forward to. There are fewer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=198.9s	198.9	 things more exciting than food to a lot of dogs, right? Okay, so Inertia is comfortable with Furbo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=203.7s	203.7	 Let's cover some things we can do to actually get our dogs comfortable with being alone. Dogs seem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=208.4s	208.4	 to learn best when we ease them into new things. Before you can hope to have a dog who stays relaxed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=214.3s	214.3	 while you leave for the day, you first need to get them comfortable with being alone when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=219.3s	219.3	 actually at home. Major life hack here. Remember, dogs are going to be way more likely to behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=224.2s	224.2	 calmly and acceptably when you get their excess energy out first. Our goal is to do our best to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=229.9s	229.9	 make sure we're working with a somewhat tired and satisfied dog. For some dogs, it might only take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=234.8s	234.8	 about 10 minutes a day of exercise and training to get them tired. And with other dogs, that might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=239.3s	239.3	 mean 90 minutes. Do what your dog requires because this is a super important step that will set you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=245.3s	245.3	 and your dog up for success in all areas of your training. Okay, so you've exercised your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=250.6s	250.6	 you've spent time training them. Now they're perfectly primed to spend some time alone in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=255.7s	255.7	 their area. Have a nice bedroom set up for them. For some dogs, that might mean their comfy crate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=260.7s	260.7	 For other dogs, that might mean a spare bedroom in your house. Either way, Furbo is a fantastic and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=265.6s	265.6	 helpful addition to this setup. Notice how I have the door open too. So again, she can still retreat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=270.6s	270.6	 if she wants to. And my goal here is just to get her comfortable while the Furbo shoots treats in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=275.5s	275.5	 there. You'll want to make sure that your dog isn't nervous of the treats being shot at them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=278.9s	278.9	 while they're in the crate. She was confident to just stay right there that time. So that tells me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=282.9s	282.9	 I can probably close the door and she'll probably be fine. Let's see. Yes, the fact that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=291.2s	291.2	 behaving calmly there and lying down is a rewardable moment to me. You could literally be on the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=297.7s	297.7	 side of the world and training your dog right now. This is insane. And here's another amazing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 training hack to get your dog comfortable with being alone. Whether or not you ultimately intend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=307.3s	307.3	 to have your dog sleep in your room with you. I think it's still a good idea to first get them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 comfortable with sleeping in another part of your home without you. This is an incredibly easy way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=317.6s	317.6	 to get traction on your training. Think about it. If they spend eight hours overnight falling asleep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=323.0s	323.0	 and waking up, they're likely very calm during those moments of their life. And this will get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=327.6s	327.6	 them used to being without you and in a calm state of mind. In other words, the more experience that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=332.8s	332.8	 your dog has being content and alone at the same time, the better. Let's leave the room and see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=339.0s	339.0	 inertia does and how the Furbo helps our training. I'm around the corner right now and she can't see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 me. She's getting a little anxious though. She's looking at the Furbo there. Watch, let's see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=349.8s	349.8	 It's odd how entertaining this actually is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=355.9s	355.9	 This is like better than Netflix. And the real beauty here is that you can use Furbo to toss
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=361.1s	361.1	 them some treats while they're in that nice chilled out state. Remember, especially in the early stages
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=366.7s	366.7	 of having a dog when they're alone, some whining or barking is normal. Now, assuming they've had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=371.8s	371.8	 their potty breaks and their training for the day, give them a few minutes to calm down naturally.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=376.4s	376.4	 Now, if they're still pretty wound up after about 10 minutes, it's probably a good idea to take them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=381.2s	381.2	 outside for an additional potty break, you know, just to make sure. But try to at least get a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=386.3s	386.3	 seconds of quiet before you let them out of their area. And that's going to really let them know that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=390.9s	390.9	 calm behavior is what we as their people respond to most. So for example, when inertia was a puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=397.4s	397.4	 I would wait for her to just naturally be quiet for maybe a second and then let her out. First,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=402.2s	402.2	 I'm going to wait for her to relax on her own and then I'll let her out when she's in a relaxed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=405.7s	405.7	 state of mind. Yeah, she's looking a bit more relaxed. So I'll go ahead and let her out right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=409.1s	409.1	 now. Keep in mind that all dogs are not cut out for crates, but most will do just fine assuming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=413.8s	413.8	 you introduce it slowly and gently to them. So in addition to a crate, you can use a bedroom, a bathroom,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=418.9s	418.9	 a laundry room, or some other area that's going to keep them safe when you're not there. But of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=422.8s	422.8	 course, if you feel like your dog is past that point, and they're behaving pretty well in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=426.3s	426.3	 house, then you can let them be wherever they like. If you have a young puppy, they'll need to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=430.2s	430.2	 several naps throughout the day. So it's a really good idea to have your puppy take their naps in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=435.0s	435.0	 their bedroom, in this case, a crate. I mean, they've got to sleep sometime. So put them in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=439.0s	439.0	 there when they're really tired, even if you're home to really get them comfortable with being in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=443.6s	443.6	 their special area. Doing exercises like this is great because you're simulating leaving them alone,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=449.9s	449.9	 but you can still keep an eye on them and see how they're coping during these early lessons.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=454.2s	454.2	 So while you are at home, you're in a much better position to tend to your dog and get them comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=459.1s	459.1	 with being alone for short periods of time at first. Preparing in this methodical manner is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=464.5s	464.5	 going to give you much faster success. Good job, girl. There are a few things that you can do to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=470.8s	470.8	 keep your dog content when you actually have to leave them at home alone. Stay quiet and calm when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=476.3s	476.3	 you leave and when you come home and just don't make a big deal about it at all. It doesn't hurt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=480.3s	480.3	 to leave your dog with something that makes them happy when you go away, like a great chew. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=484.9s	484.9	 Furbo is something they can learn to look forward to when you're away as well. So we're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=488.3s	488.3	 take a quick walk and we'll see how inertia does when we leave her alone. So I'm going to walk out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=492.3s	492.3	 of the door, but before I do that, I'm going to go ahead and toss some treats from the Furbo,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=497.7s	497.7	 see what happens here. Okay, go on. I think she thought she had to stay. So I'm just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=503.9s	503.9	 Bri and I are going to nonchalantly exit. We've got a camera over here as well so we can see what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=511.0s	511.0	 happens. I'm going to try to ignore her, but it's so adorable. She's peeking out of the window right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=520.2s	520.2	 now. This camera gives you a full HD view of your dog. It has a four-time zoom and 160 degree wide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=527.2s	527.2	 angle so you can see virtually everything that's in front of the camera. And night vision works
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 really well on this too. We actually have audio so I can hear if she's barking. I'm getting bark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=535.9s	535.9	 alerts on my watch every time she barks. Usually she doesn't bark that much when we leave her alone,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=540.8s	540.8	 but occasionally she does. So we're continuing to work on it and this is I think something that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=545.3s	545.3	 definitely going to help us. Good girl. I could tell she was about to get into a barking fit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=550.3s	550.3	 so I wanted to preempt it right there by getting her attention on me, albeit virtually, and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=555.6s	555.6	 giving her a treat. So you have that two-way audio. Not only can I see her, but I can talk to her as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=560.9s	560.9	 well. Inertia! So what we're doing here is we're conditioning her that being alone still means that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=567.8s	567.8	 fun things happen. It doesn't get completely boring, you know? I think I just turned my dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=573.8s	573.8	 into a video game. You can really see how calm and relaxed her body language is right now. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=579.1s	579.1	 really shifting into that more chill mindset rather than barking like she first was when we left. Let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=584.2s	584.2	 me see if I can get her to lie down. Inertia, lie down. Oh my goodness, did you see that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=592.1s	592.1	 She totally lied down when I said lie down. Inertia, lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=599.1s	599.1	 I'm going to definitely reward that. This is pretty incredible. I mean, I can see my dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=604.4s	604.4	 I can hear my dog, I can talk to my dog, I can give my dog treats regardless of where I am,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=609.8s	609.8	 anywhere in the world. How far is technology going to go? The Furbo really just becomes your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=615.5s	615.5	 second set of eyes when your dog is ready to be left alone outside of their dog-proofed area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=619.7s	619.7	 You know, once you've worked up to that, of course. Let's say that your dog had a really bad case of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=623.9s	623.9	 excessive barking. You can always consider things like putting them in another part of the house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=628.1s	628.1	 For example, if Inertia was barking way too much right now out of the window, that would be your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=632.2s	632.2	 cue that your dog probably needs to be put in a more refined area that isn't so stimulating,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=636.4s	636.4	 or maybe you need to exercise your dog or do some training to kind of tire them out mentally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=640.9s	640.9	 and physically. Honestly, the level of science that Furbo allows you to conduct is pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=645.4s	645.4	 remarkable. It allows you to really fine tune your training so that you can see what's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=649.4s	649.4	 on when you're not there. And until now, you have never been able to do that in a way that is this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=654.0s	654.0	 powerful, which is really cool. If your smoke alarm or your carbon monoxide alarm is going off,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=658.7s	658.7	 you'll actually get notified. We tested it. It worked the first time. The AI on Furbo knows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=664.2s	664.2	 the difference between a person and a dog, so you'll actually get a person alert. I've set this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=668.6s	668.6	 off by walking in front of the Furbo a few times. It's nice to know you have that extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=672.3s	672.3	 layer of security with this too. When your dog first starts to learn to be alone, it is so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=676.8s	676.8	 incredibly empowering for you both. If you decide you're interested in the Furbo dog camera,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=681.9s	681.9	 I'm going to have a link and promo code in the description below. I really hope this helps you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_Iz_cJE3FY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=270&pp=iAQB&t=686.6s	686.6	 guys. We'll see you in the next video. Bye.
