https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 In today's episode, I'm going to attempt to teach inertia three absolutely ridiculous things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=5.5s	5.5	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog and I'm going to show you how I trained her from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=10.9s	10.9	 day one. Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=16.5s	16.5	 up anywhere. Subscribe and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode. When you put into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 motion an approach based on love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=26.5s	26.5	 This is inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience. We're at the park today, which should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 make my training a little bit more complicated. So I'm hoping that opening these boxes, which inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 loves, will get her in a really good mood. BarkBox is a monthly subscription box where they send you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=43.9s	43.9	 amazing toys and great treats. Frenchies in Paris is our theme this month. So check this out. It's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 baguette. Oh, it comes out. Look at that. So crinkly, squeaky. Okay. You're into the squeaky
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=55.3s	55.3	 toy right now. That's fine. All of a sudden she's gotten way more interested in me. We're off to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=59.5s	59.5	 good start. Oh, I guess people eat frog legs in Paris, right? I get it. She's obviously interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 in frog legs. The attention to detail in these toys is just great. We've got some awesome treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=69.2s	69.2	 here. Lamb cuts and duck cuts. So they work for training. That's good. This is a peanut butter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=75.0s	75.0	 chew. I like to give these to inertia towards the end of the day or when she's taking a break. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=79.2s	79.2	 I'll save this for later. I know some of you have dogs that are a little bit tougher on toys and for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=83.7s	83.7	 you, there's the super chewer box. The theme on this one is backyard barbecue. I mean, right off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=89.4s	89.4	 the bat, corn on the cob. This thing is heavy. It's like four pounds. And this is actually a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=93.7s	93.7	 really interactive toy. You can put peanut butter in there, maybe mix it with some kibble. So it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=97.7s	97.7	 keeps your dog extra interested, but this is not possible to destroy. I mean, this just isn't. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=103.9s	103.9	 wreck of ribs. Super heavy, super durable here. I mean, that smells like actual ribs. For dogs that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=110.0s	110.0	 love to chew toys with different textures like this are the best in your super chew box. You're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 always going to get two top notch chews that your dog's going to love. These are completely vegan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=119.0s	119.0	 treats right here. Those are good. And inertia agrees. Is your dog a bark box dog or a super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=124.5s	124.5	 chewer dog? I think inertia is both. You can get a free super chewer box or a free bark box when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=129.4s	129.4	 sign up for a six or 12 month subscription by going to bark box.com slash dog training or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=134.2s	134.2	 super chewer.com slash dog training. I'll have both of those links in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=138.9s	138.9	 Today I'm hoping to work on three brand new different things with inertia with the ultimate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=143.6s	143.6	 goal of increasing her focus. Clearly here at Piedmont park, there are plenty of distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=149.4s	149.4	 all around all the time. And our training doesn't really mean much unless our dogs will pay attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=154.2s	154.2	 to us in distracting environments. I mean, even as I speak, you can see she's very focused on these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=159.6s	159.6	 dogs over here. I don't mind that she's looking at dogs and things like that, but there are times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=164.2s	164.2	 when I need her focus on me. And that's something that I hope we can improve on today. Now you might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=169.6s	169.6	 find some of the things we're going to cover today to be a little weird, but that's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=173.7s	173.7	 Stick with me. So you might notice I have inertia right here between my legs and she's staying. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=178.8s	178.8	 this is good. So ultimately my goal here is going to be to teach her how to stay in this position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=184.0s	184.0	 as I walk whatever direction I move in. So let me get her attention on me. Look at me. Excellent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=191.1s	191.1	 Yes. She's doing great. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=195.8s	195.8	 Yes. Good girl. So now the moment of truth here. Will she actually stay in this position as I move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 forward? I'm going to try to set her up for success here. So look at me. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=208.8s	208.8	 You might notice. Yes. Good one step there. You might notice I'm real hunched over as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=214.0s	214.0	 in order to have a small training bubble to make it easy here. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=220.4s	220.4	 Yes. She got a little distracted by this bite going by over here, but I was able to get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=225.4s	225.4	 attention on me and maintain position. That's a winner. That's good. I'm going to try to get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=230.6s	230.6	 to pay attention to me without having a treat in my hand this time. Look at me. Let's go this way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 So just every couple of steps there, I'm going to give her a treat. Yes. Good girl. The treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=242.6s	242.6	 will come from over here this time. You know, if your dog can do a basic heel, they can probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=246.6s	246.6	 do this. I mean, it's basically the same exercise, but instead of having them off to one side,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=251.4s	251.4	 you know, they're staying right here in this position. Let's practice this a little bit and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=255.2s	255.2	 see what we get here. Good. Look at me this way. So you can see there. She's really, I'm going real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=262.7s	262.7	 slow. Yes. And she's holding her position. I like that. Let me see if we can do a right turn. Look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=267.9s	267.9	 at me. Oh, that was good. I'm going to come back to the left. You can see there. She's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=277.7s	277.7	 adjusting well. Look at that. And inertia is kind of long, like a school bus. So, you know, it can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=283.1s	283.1	 be a little awkward, but you're looking very graceful. And she's doing that around distracting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=287.6s	287.6	 scooters, something she finds very enticing. This way. Good girl. Yes. You're doing so well with this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=295.0s	295.0	 So we're able to take a step forward. Look at me here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=299.7s	299.7	 Good. We can go to the right. Good to the left. And notice I'm not really trying to go long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=306.3s	306.3	 distances or do complete circle here. I'm just really focused on getting a step in the right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 direction to keep her optimistic. Yes. Come on. There's a complete circle though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=320.0s	320.0	 I think I look ridiculous, but that's okay. As long as she looks cute, that's the only thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=324.2s	324.2	 that matters. Inertia. Let's go straight. Good. We're going to turn around. Look at this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=332.6s	332.6	 Let's go. I have to walk a little funny because she's so tall. Now this can be good to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=339.5s	339.5	 dog under control. It's also a flashy trick. And like any training, it's just a great way to build
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=344.3s	344.3	 communication with your dog. So as I encourage inertia to walk in this specific position,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=348.5s	348.5	 I'm encouraging her to stay focused on me more visually. So I'm not using words. She doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=353.0s	353.0	 understand yet. I'll wait to teach her the word for this until she really understands the concept.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=357.4s	357.4	 You can see, I mean, I'm not even having to actually tell her to turn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=362.7s	362.7	 She's just watching me and seeing where we're going and look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=366.2s	366.2	 lovely rear end awareness. So right now I got to go very slow to get her to stay with me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=373.8s	373.8	 See if I go too fast. She gets, she gets lost and gets confused there. So, I mean, ideally I'd like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=381.1s	381.1	 to be able to walk like this all day long and have her stay in position. So let's work on that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=385.5s	385.5	 Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Here, this way. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=399.0s	399.0	 You're doing so well. You are so smart. Yes. Since she's lagging behind, I'm encouraging her to kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=405.4s	405.4	 of stay in front of me a little bit here by holding the treat way out here. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=411.1s	411.1	 Yes. Good. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=418.0s	418.0	 Good. So obviously I don't want to have to have the hand out here all the time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=423.0s	423.0	 but we'll work on that for now to make it easier for her. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=426.8s	426.8	 Yeah. Good. This way. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=430.4s	430.4	 Come on. Good. That was better. Yes. Okay. So that's interesting, isn't it? I'm going to try and pull
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=442.8s	442.8	 her out off to my side now. There we go. That was a nice little move. Switch. Good. Stay. Through.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=450.8s	450.8	 Look at me. Turn. Turn. Oh, I wonder if she can go backwards. Back up. Stay. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=458.9s	458.9	 oh, that was pretty awesome. So this is obviously a skill that's going to take some practice,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=463.7s	463.7	 but you know, this is the beginning version of that and we'll see if she improves over time on it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=467.8s	467.8	 Another minor skill that I've been wanting to teach inertia is how to rest her head down. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=472.8s	472.8	 totally adorable. It's kind of like a movie trick. You know, it's one of those things that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=476.5s	476.5	 add to a lot of existing tricks that make it extra cute. For example, let's see. Lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=482.2s	482.2	 Good job. So lie down. Nice normal trick, but let's see if I can lure her right here. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=488.5s	488.5	 Yes. She's getting really good with that. Stay that freeze, if you will. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=498.7s	498.7	 Yes. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=502.3s	502.3	 Okay. Yes. Good work. So as before, I'm not really focused on getting her to understand the term,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=507.7s	507.7	 put your head down. I'm more focused on just getting her to voluntarily go into the position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=512.0s	512.0	 that I'm asking for. So you can see she's really, really taking to this super quick. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=517.5s	517.5	 wonderful. I pushed her too far that time. I haven't worked on this before, but this is an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=523.1s	523.1	 example of when your communication starts to become more fluent with one another. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=528.2s	528.2	 really breeze through new skills like this. Stay. Okay. Saying okay to let her know that it's over.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=537.6s	537.6	 Yes. So she's getting the point here, but I'm still having to lure her. So my next step really is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=541.7s	541.7	 see if I can encourage her to keep her head down without the lure. So let's see what we can do here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=547.0s	547.0	 Stay. Okay. Yes. I'll give her the treat from over here this time. See that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=555.4s	555.4	 No treat that time. See that? Okay. Yes. That's what the first version of this trick is looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=562.3s	562.3	 like. And we'll try and refine that and make it look better over time, but pretty good. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=565.9s	565.9	 she's doing an all right job. So let's see if we can teach her a third trick today. Peanut butter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=570.2s	570.2	 cookie treats should work fine. I'm going to attempt to teach inertia how to balance this treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=576.2s	576.2	 on her snout, on her nose and see how she does. This is one of those that can take time and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=581.0s	581.0	 discipline and restraint from your dog. But once you get there, it can be pretty awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=584.9s	584.9	 So I first want to start by touching her nose with it. Like I want to get her comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=591.0s	591.0	 with the fact that there's going to be a treat over here touching her. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=595.3s	595.3	 Good girl. If you like hold your dog's face and you put the treat on their nose, they're like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=599.6s	599.6	 they're more likely to resist and be like, what are you doing? So I want to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=603.0s	603.0	 I really want her voluntarily doing this. Yes. So far she's like, okay. Yes. Very good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=611.0s	611.0	 Let me see if I can encourage her to hold an extra strong stay here. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=617.1s	617.1	 She looked away there. Stay. Yes. It was the most subtle pull away. And I really want to avoid that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=622.8s	622.8	 I want her enthusiastically accepting the treat being placed on her nose.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=628.5s	628.5	 See that? See how she pulled away. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=630.2s	630.2	 Yes. That was really good. Notice how I'm not pushing her and pushing her there. I got a half
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=635.1s	635.1	 a second of her letting the treat stay on her nose. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=646.7s	646.7	 Yes. That was great. And so I'm taking the treat off her nose. Stay. With a lot of dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=651.9s	651.9	 they'll tend to drop their nose down and the treat will fall off. That's why we really want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=655.4s	655.4	 to prioritize short duration. Yes. Good. That was, that was really awesome right there. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=666.6s	666.6	 Okay. Good. I think at some point I can probably trick her into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=671.1s	671.1	 flipping the treat off of her snout there and catching it in the air.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=674.7s	674.7	 That would be awesome. It's still new to her. So stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=678.1s	678.1	 Okay. Okay. Good. But she's really getting this concept of holding still and keeping her nose up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=687.8s	687.8	 Stay. Oh, she did it. That was what I want. Yes. Good. I mean, it was a complete accident. She got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=698.8s	698.8	 distracted over here by the commotion going on. When you're training a dog, accidents like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=703.7s	703.7	 happen all of the time. Cause I had no idea how I was going to get her to snatch the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=707.8s	707.8	 A trick like this is just brilliant for teaching your dog that extra discipline.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=711.7s	711.7	 It actually increases their focus. If you do this, you're going to find that their obedience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 training goes so much easier. Or if you ever wanted to make your sponsor extra happy, you could do this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=723.1s	723.1	 Yes. Good job. Get your free super chewer box, spark box, or both. When you sign up for a six
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=729.9s	729.9	 or 12 month plan at my special links in the description, subscribe to my channel and follow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=734.4s	734.4	 us on Instagram and Tik TOK to see me and inertia do some more ridiculous things every day. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=739.3s	739.3	 you're working on training your dog, check out both of my books for all of my most in-depth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=743.4s	743.4	 training advice in one place. In the next episode, I'm going to continue working on teaching inertia,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hd3-FZ9DPt4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=273&pp=iAQB&t=748.6s	748.6	 how to not bark at everything that moves part two. It's going to be a good one.
