https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 In this episode, I'm going to attempt to teach inertia two brand new things,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=3.7s	3.7	 including one trick that I've never taught before. I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=9.7s	9.7	 And I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one. Things definitely won't always go smoothly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=15.1s	15.1	 You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere. Subscribe and hit the bell notification
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=19.9s	19.9	 so you never miss an episode. When you put into motion an approach based on love and respect,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=24.4s	24.4	 your results will forever remain in motion. This is inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=33.2s	33.2	 Pup Box is a subscription box that'll help you train your dog. So they send you boxes based on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=37.6s	37.6	 your dog's specific age, along with training supplies and guidance every month. So if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=42.5s	42.5	 ever feel like you're hitting a plateau, this is a great resource to keep your training moving.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=47.0s	47.0	 It's lamb chop. You guys kind of look alike. Her old friend, the lion. This is one of the first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=51.7s	51.7	 toys we ever gave to inertia and she loved it. And of course we have some training essentials here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=56.1s	56.1	 too, like a good chew toy. We also get some top notch training treats. Wipes are more important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=61.1s	61.1	 than you might imagine when you have a young puppy. So I love that they include those stain and odor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=66.1s	66.1	 remover for those unforeseen accidents that are bound to occur with virtually any puppy. And this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=71.5s	71.5	 is just the two month old box. Now that inertia is a year old, this is our very first adult box.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=76.6s	76.6	 Look at this. You're going to love it. What's a narwhal? Is that a real animal? Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=83.8s	83.8	 You get that marwhal. You get that narwhal. So these are chicken training treats. So they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 smaller, more treat size. Now that she's older, we have a stuffed beef bone. Paw Balm. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=98.3s	98.3	 use this. That's quite nice. Okay. It's for inertia. I'm going to save it for her. Oh no.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=105.8s	105.8	 No. Are you serious? So this is a nerf dog squeaker. As one of our viewers, you're going to get 50%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=112.4s	112.4	 off of your first box when you sign up for a three, six or 12 month subscription. Go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=116.9s	116.9	 puttbox.com slash Zach and enter discount code Zach. I'll have a link below. Now that inertia is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=121.9s	121.9	 getting a little bit older. One of the tricks that I've been wanting to teach her is how to walk on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=126.1s	126.1	 her hind legs. This is one of those tricks that you save for a dog that's a little bit older,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=130.6s	130.6	 because it's a pretty physically demanding trick. All you really need for this is a strong currency.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=135.1s	135.1	 I think I'm going to start with food and my goal is to see if I can just get her to stand up like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=139.0s	139.0	 a person. So I like getting her warmed up with a sit pretty, go ahead, sit pretty. To me, that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=144.1s	144.1	 prerequisite for teaching this just because I want to make sure that they've got the concept of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=148.6s	148.6	 balancing while both of their paws are off the ground. Okay, good. Plus it helps them develop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=153.4s	153.4	 that core strength, which we should all do a little bit more of. I want to point out to you how we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=159.2s	159.2	 doing this trick in public. We've struggled with this in the past, like many of you have, I'm sure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=164.5s	164.5	 When you're trying to train in new places or public places where there's a lot going on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 can be pretty exciting for your dog. Up here. I'm just kind of wiggling my hand here, seeing if that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 that's a pretty, that's, that's speak, but that's not what I'm looking for. Up here. Come on up here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=182.4s	182.4	 Almost. She's working through a little bit of frustration right there. She's like, what do you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=187.0s	187.0	 want? I'm a little confused and that's normal. You know, you just need to be extra patient with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=190.8s	190.8	 your dog when they're a bit confused like that. Sometimes it might make sense to go ahead and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=194.6s	194.6	 reward for the effort. Other times it makes more sense to just kind of let them work it out, run
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=198.8s	198.8	 through a few things. That's the call that you have to make as your dog's trainer and as the person who
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=203.4s	203.4	 knows them best. If what you're doing isn't working, try and reach deep and find other ways to make it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=207.7s	207.7	 motivating. So if I go up like this, I'm going to get down here. See, she thinks I'm asking for sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=212.7s	212.7	 pretty. I'm still going to go ahead and reward that because I like that she's trying, but I'm trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=216.6s	216.6	 get her to kind of come up a little bit more. Go on. Yes. Good. Just going to reward her for jumping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 up. Get that. Yeah. Whoa. That was much better there. That was really good. Yes. And notice there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=231.5s	231.5	 I'm happy to let her balance right there by holding onto me because it encourages her to stay in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 position. Good girl. Good. And I'm just letting her nibble on these treats to encourage her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=243.2s	243.2	 stay up there. So, so far I've got to really lure her up here in order to encourage her. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=249.1s	249.1	 And okay. So my next step is to try and get her balancing for just a fraction of a second without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=254.6s	254.6	 having any support at all. There we go. Yes. Good. So she was up there for just a second.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=261.6s	261.6	 I'm going to do that a few times. Yes. Very good. So you can see she's still trying to hold on to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=266.7s	266.7	 me there. Let me see if we can start to get her to come up without me having to hold the treat now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=270.9s	270.9	 And then maybe we'll reward her after. So what's this? Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=278.7s	278.7	 Inertia. Yes. Excellent. Best one so far. She's really starting to understand what we want here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=287.0s	287.0	 So I'm trying to intervene before she quits on her own. That'll be important for building duration
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=291.6s	291.6	 later. Yes. Good. See how she was coming down there, but she thought better of it and was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=298.1s	298.1	 okay, I'll try and hold it for another second. Look for the small moments of progress where your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=302.2s	302.2	 dog is like, I was going to do something else, but I decided to listen to you instead. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=306.6s	306.6	 switching up currencies right now just to see if this might incentivize her as well. I knew she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=311.5s	311.5	 would love this lamb chop. Well, it looks like we're off to a good start here. So up here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=320.1s	320.1	 Yes. Oh my gosh. That was amazing. I was really pushing it. Good girl. Get it. Switching up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=325.5s	325.5	 currencies seemed to encourage her to do even better there. So that's why you got to experiment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=329.8s	329.8	 with what your dog likes. The fact that she's holding that now for a couple of seconds at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=334.3s	334.3	 time is pretty awesome. My ultimate goal might be to teach her how to walk forwards or backwards or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=338.2s	338.2	 both while on her hind legs. Let's see if we can get started on that right now. Get those feet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=343.0s	343.0	 Yes. Good. She took a couple of steps backwards right there. So I'm thinking that keeping the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=348.0s	348.0	 treat really glued to her nose might encourage her to reposition while on her hind legs. And that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=352.6s	352.6	 would be the first step to teaching her to walk eventually. So she's mostly staying stationary,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=357.6s	357.6	 but I can tell that there's an increased rate of focus here. Yo, what's what is happening?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=367.5s	367.5	 That was great. So she started walking backwards there. A lot of dogs will walk backwards.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=372.3s	372.3	 Naturally, a lot of dogs will walk forward. It just kind of depends on your dog. And if you work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=376.3s	376.3	 at it, you can teach them to do one or both or whatever you want. So up here. Good. So we're back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=381.3s	381.3	 to the lure, which is fine. Good. Yeah, good. Oh, look at this. Look at this. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=392.2s	392.2	 Good girl. Very good. So that was excellent. Also another note, I've noticed that with many small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=397.3s	397.3	 breed dogs that they tend to do this really naturally. So it might be easier to teach this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=402.1s	402.1	 to some dogs over others. Does your dog walk on their hind legs? If so, tag me on Instagram. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=406.4s	406.4	 want to see it. So this is a trick we'll continue to work on over the next many months. This is not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=410.9s	410.9	 the kind of trick that you really want to rush with your dog because it does take a lot of practice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=414.8s	414.8	 And remember, it's super physically demanding. It's not really recommended that you teach a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=418.4s	418.4	 trick like this to a puppy. Whenever you're working on this, it's a good idea to keep those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=422.4s	422.4	 training sessions very short. I think she's got another trick in her. Let's go see if we can teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=426.8s	426.8	 her something else. I'm going to need something for her to prop her paws up on though. Let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=431.6s	431.6	 find something. Come on. Another trick that I've been wanting to teach inertia is hide your face
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=436.9s	436.9	 while your paws are up on something up here. Paws up. Very good. So that's a trick that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=442.6s	442.6	 learned pretty well. I'm going to go ahead and reward her and she'll hold up there pretty good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=446.7s	446.7	 until I tell her to get down, you know, within reason. The next thing I want to do is lure her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=452.0s	452.0	 head down here. Yes. Good. You might see that I'm letting her nibble on the tree a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=460.3s	460.3	 Yes. When you spend a lot of time with your dog, working with them on a variety of tasks,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=465.1s	465.1	 it gets to a point where you can teach new things so quickly because your existing foundation of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=470.2s	470.2	 communication is so strong. Okay, good work. And that was awesome right there. So that was a really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=477.6s	477.6	 really good example. Almost too good. You would think she already knew this trick. Paws up. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=487.0s	487.0	 I'm trying to reward her before she peeks her head back up. Yes. See, if I wait too long, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=493.9s	493.9	 she's going to look up and look over here at the tree. I don't want that. So up here, paws up. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=499.0s	499.0	 Stay. Yes. Stay. Yes. I'm trying to have her brainstorm right there. She got a little distracted,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=512.8s	512.8	 but she was able to refocus and put her head back into position there. Good. Very good. You might also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=519.2s	519.2	 notice I'm not saying things like hide your face, hide your face over and over again. I really just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=524.7s	524.7	 want her to get the mechanics down and then we can start telling her what that's called. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=529.0s	529.0	 to see if I can do it without the lure this time. Maybe just use my hand as a guide. Stay. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=535.4s	535.4	 That was great. I should reward over here. Stay. Yes. Good. I'm going to go ahead and give her the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=545.3s	545.3	 treat from over here this time. Stay. Yes. Excellent job. So there I didn't even have to lure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=554.4s	554.4	 I'm going to go back to the tree for a sec. Stay. Yes. Good. I'm just asking for short periods of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=560.5s	560.5	 time right now. Again, finding tiny moments to reward any move in the correct direction. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=566.1s	566.1	 should acknowledge to your dog, especially when teaching something new to them. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=571.1s	571.1	 Yes. Stay. Yes. That's a real good one. Look at those nails just clinging on. Stay. My hand is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=579.4s	579.4	 completely out of sight. Yes. Stay. Yes. Oh, good job. All right. So I think we'll quit while we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=587.0s	587.0	 ahead. I think that was awesome. Very pleased with hide your face. And remember, tricks are just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=593.1s	593.1	 brilliant for building your own skills. So I'm going to give her the treat. Stay. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=601.9s	601.9	 It's not about the trick. What's really valuable about teaching things like this is that you and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=606.7s	606.7	 your dog understand each other at a completely new and deeper level. And that's going to transition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=612.3s	612.3	 into so many amazing aspects of your training moving forward. Get 50% off of your first Putbox
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=618.2s	618.2	 when you sign up for a three, six or 12 month subscription and enter discount code. Zack at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=622.8s	622.8	 putbox.com slash Zack. Subscribe to this channel and follow us on Instagram and TikTok for constant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=629.0s	629.0	 updates on inertia's daily life. I love how many of you have been watching our Instagram stories
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=633.4s	633.4	 lately. Check out both of my books for all of my most in depth training advice in one place. In
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=639.0s	639.0	 the next episode, I'm going to teach inertia to understand me in a completely new way. See you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gsxaO44D46I&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=275&pp=iAQB&t=643.9s	643.9	 next time.
