https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=6.3s	6.3	 Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=11.8s	11.8	 Subscribe and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode. When you put into motion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 an approach based on love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion. This is Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=22.7s	22.7	 Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=25.1s	25.1	 Something unusual is going on here. There are a bunch of balloons around. We haven't taught Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 how to read yet, but there is a clue. Happy first birthday to you! While Brianna has many talents,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 baking is not at the top of her list. I'm gonna try to bake Inertia some birthday cupcakes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=51.3s	51.3	 I have no promises. I'm not good at this. We've got a cupcake tin, some flour, and some other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=56.3s	56.3	 stuff. When was the last time you baked cupcakes or pup cakes for that matter? Pre-high school,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=60.9s	60.9	 I don't know. My mom's a great baker and I helped her when I was little, but it's been a long time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=66.2s	66.2	 What are the chances of failure? The chances of Inertia not liking what I make?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=71.2s	71.2	 Oh gosh, I'm not that confident. I feel like 60-40, 60 percent chance she might like it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=76.6s	76.6	 However, Indy's gonna eat it no matter what, so that's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=79.8s	79.8	 Flour. That's how much flour.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=83.7s	83.7	 Inertia, hold on. We're doing the train here. Watch this. See, look at her. Look at her. She sees
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=90.5s	90.5	 a dog outside. Inertia, come. Oh bad girl. Inertia, come. Good girl. Lie down. I know that's hard. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 Good. Good job. Quiet, please. Yep, that's life. Gotta stop and train sometimes. Baking soda.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=112.0s	112.0	 This one's baking powder. That's like basically two tablespoons. This was full at the beginning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=118.5s	118.5	 of COVID-19 and it's all me. I've eaten this entire jar of peanut butter. Oh my goodness. I know. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=123.0s	123.0	 is a problem I just realized about myself. Okay. There you go. Get your hands dirty. You can have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=129.4s	129.4	 the spoon. Look at her eyes. Look how excited she gets. Now at 14, they can do anything, I guess.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=134.9s	134.9	 She can do anything. Safe time. Two tablespoons of oil. Apple sauce. Okay. Yeah. It's chunky. I got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=145.0s	145.0	 the chunky kind. Nice. So she would have apple chunks in her birthday cupcakes. Yuck. I would be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=150.2s	150.2	 so mad if I was a kid and I had apple chunks in my cupcakes. Peanut butter apple cupcakes don't sound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=155.4s	155.4	 amazing to you. They sound good to me. I predict Zach will eat a couple. Well, yes. I mean, I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=160.2s	160.2	 definitely eaten more questionable dog treats than this. It's true. I think that's everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 All right. So now we just mix it up. Yeah. I think you're not supposed to use a whisk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 It just said stir, but I thought that, I don't know, whisks are for baking, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=175.7s	175.7	 No, are they? I think you just use like a mixing spoon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 Oh, that's much better, huh? Yeah, much better. See the apple chunks? Yeah. I'm proud of this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=188.6s	188.6	 My arm is tired. You do this all the time? Yeah. This job is hard. Hey, Inertia,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=194.7s	194.7	 thank you for being quiet. That's very good. I'm just gonna like watch it and hope that I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=200.3s	200.3	 tell when it's done. Those look great. Look at that. Put some peanut butter on top. Whoa, so much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=208.5s	208.5	 Yeah, that's perfect. It's got a one. What do you think? I think it's awesome. Now I have to get an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=213.7s	213.7	 Instagram photo. Okay, good. She's interested. You are so lucky. All right, blow out your candle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=219.2s	219.2	 I'll help you. Ready? Happy birthday. Oh, make a wish. She said, I wish that candle would go out so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=225.1s	225.1	 I could eat my cupcake. I know. Happy birthday, Inertia. That looks so good. She definitely likes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=231.6s	231.6	 the whipped cream. She got to the peanut butter layer. Yep. I don't know if she knows that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 can actually bite into these yet. Oh, there she goes. Look at that. Peanut butter side down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=243.5s	243.5	 That's how she rolls. Oh, boy. I think she might actually like it. I think she loves it. Obviously,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=252.3s	252.3	 Indy gets one too. Here you go. Okay. You guys aren't the only ones who get to try these. These
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=260.9s	260.9	 look good. Not bad. Does it taste like peanut butter and apple sauce? Yeah, the only thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=269.6s	269.6	 that it needs more of is sugar, but not for the dogs. Yeah? Yeah. In honor of Inertia's first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=276.6s	276.6	 birthday, recently on Instagram, I asked you guys questions you had about her training to this point
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 and the overall experience with Inertia so far. So I really wanted to take a minute and kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=288.0s	288.0	 address some of those questions. All right. First question. What was the most difficult thing that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=293.8s	293.8	 surprised you about training Inertia? Well, you know, it's probably not much of a surprise,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=299.6s	299.6	 but her puppy biting stage was super intense. I mean, not the worst ever, but on the upper end
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=305.4s	305.4	 of the spectrum, I would say. We're actually putting together a video right now where we kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=310.2s	310.2	 of detail over the period of time how the puppy biting got resolved and how long it really took.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=315.3s	315.3	 Stay tuned for that video. You're going to like it. Even to this day, we still struggle a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=319.2s	319.2	 bit with excessive barking. Sometimes we've been detailing that in recent episodes, as you've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=323.6s	323.6	 seeing, and we're continuing to work through that. She's slowly getting better, but I sure wish she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=327.8s	327.8	 would get better faster. How many of you feel that way? Me too. Relative to my other dogs that I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=333.0s	333.0	 trained in the past, Inertia loves dogs more than any of my other past dogs have. So working around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=339.0s	339.0	 dogs as distractions frequently has been something that we've been having to put some extra time into.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=345.1s	345.1	 I know so many of you deal with that, so it works out for me. I feel like I was pretty prepared for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=349.5s	349.5	 a wide variety of different scenarios. So from day one, I've designed my whole training strategy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=356.5s	356.5	 around flexibility, because you just don't know that much about a dog when you first get them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=360.7s	360.7	 and you don't know what their personality is going to be like. For example, she plays frisbee. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=365.3s	365.3	 decent at frisbee, but she's not what I would consider like a really intense frisbee dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=370.2s	370.2	 On the other hand, I mean, I can think of at least a dozen tricks that I've already taught her that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=374.6s	374.6	 I've never taught any other dog before, because she's really into learning those types of new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=379.0s	379.0	 tricks like her somersault and some upcoming tricks that I have not yet shown you. So you'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=384.6s	384.6	 have to stay tuned for those. When does it get easier? When does it get easier? I'll let you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=391.0s	391.0	 know when I find out. I'm just kidding. That's actually a really good question, especially those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=397.2s	397.2	 of you with new dogs or young dogs in particular, it takes a good period of time to really build
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=403.1s	403.1	 communication with them. And so it kind of feels like, man, I'm getting nowhere with this dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=407.6s	407.6	 her progress is so slow. I mean, you can see that through the first several months of our training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=412.1s	412.1	 sometimes you'd see a spurt in her progress, but then you might see regression or a plateau.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=417.6s	417.6	 And then, you know, a month later, she like breaks through to a new level mentally. But it's as though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=422.5s	422.5	 you reach a tipping point where your dog really starts to understand more than they don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=428.5s	428.5	 understand. And that's when training really seems to accelerate and you just start breaking new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=433.2s	433.2	 ground at a much more rapid rate. But I gotta tell you guys, I mean, I've been through this a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=437.1s	437.1	 times with my own dogs and many dogs that I've trained over the years. And it's really so normal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=441.6s	441.6	 to feel like you're not connecting with your dog as much as you should. But if you just stay the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=446.6s	446.6	 course, and you're really focused on just making a tiny bit of progress every time you work with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=451.0s	451.0	 them or working with them 10 seconds here when you open the door, or five minutes here on a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=456.3s	456.3	 trick that you're inspired to do, you would be surprised how just those little bits of interaction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=462.0s	462.0	 can build incredible communication as long as you're consistent. So stick with it. I believe in you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=467.4s	467.4	 What do you think is the biggest mistake that people make in their first year with a new puppy?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=473.0s	473.0	 That's, I mean, that's a pretty easy one. I mean, it's always a good one to review. But I guess the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=476.8s	476.8	 biggest mistake that as a dog trainer, I see other people make with their dogs is giving their dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=480.9s	480.9	 too much freedom, giving them the run of the house or something like that way too early on in their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=485.4s	485.4	 training. And that needs to be done in a pretty deliberate way, which we've covered throughout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=489.0s	489.0	 this series. So you can check it out from the beginning to see how we've gone about it. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=492.6s	492.6	 you'll notice these days inertia has the full run of the house. I even let her on the couch because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=497.4s	497.4	 I trust her not to chew it up. And she's been doing a pretty good job. Another thing I noticed too,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=502.3s	502.3	 with a lot of people is that they assume that their dog is going to outgrow a lot of unwanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=507.8s	507.8	 behaviors, whether it be excessive jumping or barking or play biting or just general hyperactivity.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=514.0s	514.0	 But the truth is you really have to be very deliberate about teaching your dog how to behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=519.0s	519.0	 in those situations. And they don't typically just outgrow them. I mean, this is why when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=523.1s	523.1	 look at a lot of older shelter dogs, for example, who haven't been in the care of a human, a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=526.8s	526.8	 them still do play biting and things like that. So you still have to work with them. Of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=530.8s	530.8	 that can be true with any dog. You have to be very proactive about showing them how you want them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=535.7s	535.7	 behave. They don't just learn because they get older, I guess. But dogs love learning from people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=540.6s	540.6	 So you just have to show a little bit of effort and be pretty patient and put in your time. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=545.0s	545.0	 most dogs will be very responsive to you. Next question. Do you feel that inertia can still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=550.4s	550.4	 learn more tricks and behaviors even after a year? Absolutely. Yes, absolutely. She's just now waking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=557.0s	557.0	 up. We haven't even gotten started yet. I mean, that first year is dedicated to just building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=561.3s	561.3	 pretty basic communication and some basic tricks. But yeah, there's so much more to teach her. Dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=566.7s	566.7	 are smart. I mean, training never stops. In the first two or three years of training, there's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=572.2s	572.2	 ton that happens there. There's a lot more to training a dog than house training them, stopping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=576.5s	576.5	 biting, stopping jumping and leash walking, stay and come. I mean, that's what most people are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=581.5s	581.5	 focused on. All of those are very important, but teaching them how to do it everywhere and anywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=586.2s	586.2	 takes two or three years of experience for many dogs so that they can really generalize these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=590.3s	590.3	 concepts, teaching them new and sophisticated tricks and skills that build on prior behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=595.6s	595.6	 so you can do more complex and impressive things is part of the plan moving forward with her as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=600.2s	600.2	 well. So we haven't even started yet. So we're going to keep teaching her lots of new things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=604.5s	604.5	 for as long as you guys are interested. And trust me, there is so much more to learn. All right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=609.1s	609.1	 This is the most frequently asked question. Is there anything you would have done differently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=613.9s	613.9	 looking back now? I'm going to say not really, not really. And that isn't to say that I didn't make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=619.5s	619.5	 plenty of mistakes. The thing is like when you make mistakes or you get unexpected results from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=626.1s	626.1	 your training or you see, wow, she's not ready for this or wow, I really need to break this trick down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=630.6s	630.6	 into five more steps before I attempt to do this thing. You learn so much about your dog and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=637.0s	637.0	 almost learn more when things go unexpectedly than you do when they go as expected. And that's kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=643.8s	643.8	 of the beauty and where you really learn about teaching your dog. So even when things don't go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=648.6s	648.6	 as desired, there's still an incredible amount of learning that goes into that. If you're doing a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=653.6s	653.6	 science experiment, right? Sometimes the most unexpected data is the most interesting data and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=659.1s	659.1	 it can put you off into a completely different direction. It's kind of exciting when things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=663.6s	663.6	 don't go as you want them to go. If you can just look at the big picture. So far, I would say the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=668.2s	668.2	 series has gone exactly as I had hoped. In my books, I write how to train your dog, right? I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=673.8s	673.8	 I type out everything to do, but I really wanted this series to be like the movie of these books,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=679.8s	679.8	 really vivid illustrations of everything we cover in these. So I'm going to have links in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=684.4s	684.4	 descriptions where you can get both of my books. So Dog Training Revolution is basically an overview
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=689.2s	689.2	 of training your dog where we focus on things like house training, handling a lot of common
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=693.5s	693.5	 behavior problems, healthcare essentials, cool tricks. And I include references to other videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=698.5s	698.5	 in this book too that are pretty helpful. And then Guide to a Well Behaved Dog, we talk about chewing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=703.1s	703.1	 jumping up, play biting, begging, not listening, phobias, resource guarding, aggression, and a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=708.7s	708.7	 more. So this is a really dog training specific book, whereas this one's kind of an overview to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=714.0s	714.0	 raising your dog. And there's still a lot of training in here as well, but you can get them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=717.5s	717.5	 both on Amazon. I think they both have a 4.6 star rating and I'll have links below. And also, if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=722.2s	722.2	 want to continue to support our series, you can make a contribution on Patreon. I'll have that link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=727.0s	727.0	 in the description below, but it's been an honor so far to have you guys on the series. I'm looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=732.4s	732.4	 forward to continuing it. Hey, don't look too excited, you guys. See you next time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=740.2s	740.2	 Subscribe to my channel and get both of my books if you want the maximum amount of help training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=744.5s	744.5	 your dog. Follow us on Instagram and TikTok to see how Inertia is doing in real time every single
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=749.8s	749.8	 day. All of the links are in the description of this video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JuXqb6gHThg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=276&pp=iAQB&t=762.4s	762.4	 you
