https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today we'll go over some ways to teach your dog to listen to you when you go to a brand new place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=4.4s	4.4	 This is way harder than it sounds, isn't it? I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=10.4s	10.4	 and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one. Things definitely won't always go smoothly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=15.8s	15.8	 You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere. Subscribe and hit the bell notification
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 so you never miss an episode. When you put into motion an approach based on love and respect,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=25.1s	25.1	 your results will forever remain in motion. This is Inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=34.1s	34.1	 Now more than ever, we have to have our supplies shipped to us. It's safe and it's actually a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 more convenient. Let's see what Peplo sent us this month. Hey, look at this. We got fruitables. Have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=44.4s	44.4	 you noticed how so many different dog treats taste the same? Okay, you probably wouldn't. I've noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=49.4s	49.4	 how they taste the same, but these don't. You could totally eat these. So check this out. We have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 Kong toy here. They actually have a rope in it. How innovative is that? This is what's known as a high
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=61.0s	61.0	 value currency for a dog that likes to play. This looks cool. It's like glow in the dark ball. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=65.5s	65.5	 you can finally play at night. But what makes Peplo the most amazing company on earth is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=71.1s	71.1	 they have figured out a way for you to order your dog food one time and have it be there whenever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=76.0s	76.0	 you need it. You just tell Peplo the brand of food you want and how often you want it shipped,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 and it'll be at your front door. Enter code Zack30 and you'll get $10 off your first three automatic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=86.2s	86.2	 shipments. I'll have that link in the description. Ah, taking your dog to a brand new place can always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 be an adventure. I mean, dogs are almost certainly going to be considerably more excited when they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=96.1s	96.1	 arrive somewhere new. This can make communicating with them much more challenging. So I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 keep in mind that I need to adjust my expectations here and balance her desire to explore and check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=105.1s	105.1	 out this new place with asking her to listen to the various requests that I'll make inertia. Come,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=110.7s	110.7	 I got a parallel park you like a Cadillac. Hey, that was really good. Let's see how she does out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=115.9s	115.9	 here. I mean, again, a brand new place. This is a good sign that she's starting to generalize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=119.8s	119.8	 because she's not overwhelmed by her environment where she won't pay attention to me on a basic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=123.3s	123.3	 stay or stay by my side. So that's pretty good. Sit, stay, paws up. Good. So randomly encouraging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=131.3s	131.3	 inertia to do some tricks like putting her paws up on the rocks is a good way to keep her mentally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=136.2s	136.2	 sharp and make sure that I can get her attention. It's not something that's so monotonous that we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=140.4s	140.4	 doing all the time. Hey, not bad. Like leash walking, for example, where she's like, okay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=146.2s	146.2	 this is boring. Can we do something else? So giving her alternative things to do to also get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=151.0s	151.0	 her accustomed to paying attention to me in new places is something I like to regularly do. Nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=156.0s	156.0	 work. She recently learned speak. Let's see how she does with that. Let me try just a hand signal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=160.7s	160.7	 on speak and see how she does inertia. Wait, okay. Let me try just a verbal speak more responsive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=171.4s	171.4	 to the verbal out here. Depending on the environment, she kind of gravitates to one or the other,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=175.6s	175.6	 a hand signal versus a verbal and with your own dog. If you want them to learn both, just practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=179.7s	179.7	 both over time inertia. Come look at you all tangled up. That was good though. Your dog's friendly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=187.3s	187.3	 Yeah. Yes. She right. You said gotcha. Cute dog. Say hi.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=196.5s	196.5	 Nice. What's her name? All right. See you. Let's go. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=204.3s	204.3	 Come on. You did so well with that dog. Dogs find it so stimulating going into new places like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=210.2s	210.2	 and smelling and looking around and just seeing what is new in the world. Interesting. Look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=216.0s	216.0	 this bridge. Easy. Can you back up? Good. Back up. Stay. Look at me. Okay. And there's just still a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=230.6s	230.6	 little bit wound up and everything. You can see how she's like really curious to check out her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=234.6s	234.6	 environment. Even with that excitement compared to a few months ago when we would arrive at a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=239.2s	239.2	 location, she's doing much better. You can actually see too that she occasionally acknowledges my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=243.8s	243.8	 existence, which is really great. That's something that she wasn't very good at many months ago. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=248.7s	248.7	 teaching a dog takes time and patience and lots of consistency and understanding. Anytime you train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=254.4s	254.4	 in a new place, something unexpected is bound to happen. Today is no exception. I do not see a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=260.5s	260.5	 snake. Oh yeah. Look at that. Wow. It's a big one too. Is it a Cobra? I mean, you can see we got a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=269.4s	269.4	 big snake crossing our path right now. Good girl. And Ursa's never seen anything like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=276.5s	276.5	 That is a large snake. Good girl. She wants to go up and smell it. Wow. That was crazy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=284.5s	284.5	 Yet another unexpected thing that she gets to encounter. Oh my God. All right. I'm going to run.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=291.9s	291.9	 So I've got a long lead on her because I want to let her explore a little bit more. This lead is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=297.2s	297.2	 50 feet long. She's not too experienced with water at this point given our city dwelling life,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=303.4s	303.4	 but I think it's important that she get comfortable with new places like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=306.7s	306.7	 She's never jumped into water before and she may not today. I just want to see if she wants to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 So mom's decided to get into the water. Oh gosh, it is cold. I told you. I'm afraid of it. It's so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=318.2s	318.2	 cold. It's freezing. It is cold. Chattahoochee water is the coldest water ever. But I feel,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=322.2s	322.2	 I feel like if I get in here, I can maybe convince her. Right. But honestly, it's cold.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=329.4s	329.4	 So I don't blame her. Ursa, do you want to come in the water? Look. It's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=339.5s	339.5	 Here's a dog suddenly approaching. Let's see how inertia behaves when a dog passes us at close
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 range. I'm going to pull off to the side and let her observe the dog walking by in a way that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=348.2s	348.2	 socially acceptable with the long lead on her. Now I can give her more free reign to explore the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=353.0s	353.0	 area while still having good control over her. But I really want her to be able to explore pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=357.7s	357.7	 freely right now, just cause it's a new exciting place for her. But I also want to be careful that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=362.4s	362.4	 I have control over her because there's the occasional dog out here. And you know, I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=365.6s	365.6	 know how a dog's going to react to her. Also various forms of wildlife around here as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=370.3s	370.3	 And even if there weren't other dogs or animals like that, I still wouldn't want to let her off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=374.2s	374.2	 leash because I want to make sure I have control of her in a public place like this. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=377.9s	377.9	 there is no safety net otherwise, even if your dog eventually does listen to you when you call them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=382.5s	382.5	 if they're off leash in this type of situation, you don't want them getting in the habit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=385.9s	385.9	 of routinely ignoring you and having her on lead like this really prevents that bad habit from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=390.7s	390.7	 becoming ingrained. She's enjoying just going off here and looking at the water. She's getting more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=396.2s	396.2	 and more curious about that. Here's an example where she's really distracted by her environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=400.0s	400.0	 It's a good time to practice. Come when called, although I fear she's going to come straight to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=404.7s	404.7	 me and get tangled up. Inertia, come. There we go. Look at that. Yes. Good girl. You want this here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=414.2s	414.2	 I'm going to reward you for that. That was great. Even when you're giving your dog a chance to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=418.7s	418.7	 explore like this and give them more freedom, it's a really good opportunity. And I highly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=423.0s	423.0	 recommend that you practice come when called when they're not expecting it often. So that way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=427.0s	427.0	 when a real life situation emerges where you need them to come to you, you'll feel more confident
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=431.0s	431.0	 that they'll actually come to you. So right there, she's licking the mud. I don't like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=434.7s	434.7	 Inertia, come. So I'm giving her the incompatible behavior of coming to me. I'm not even going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=439.8s	439.8	 reward her because she seems content to listen. Inertia, come. Come on. Yes. Good. Look at you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=449.1s	449.1	 Look at you. Come here. That's it. I love it. Nice extra touch. Really like when she comes into that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=456.8s	456.8	 heel when she comes to me. So, okay. She saw a squirrel and thought about chasing it. And I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=461.3s	461.3	 able to call her off the squirrel. I mean, you can see before your dog is ever going to be perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=465.1s	465.1	 about not chasing squirrels or whatever their bad habits are, it needs to happen less and less. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=470.0s	470.0	 don't just go from chasing squirrels to not chasing squirrels. You go from chasing squirrels all the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=475.2s	475.2	 time to trying to chase squirrels less and less. And sometimes you have relapses in the middle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=480.6s	480.6	 there. You're just trying to put those puzzle pieces together over time with your dog. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=484.8s	484.8	 it looks like another dog is coming around the corner on short notice. This is why managing your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=488.9s	488.9	 dog in places like this is so important. If Inertia wasn't on a lead right now, she would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=493.0s	493.0	 almost certainly go up to the other dog. Nonetheless, she's not barking or lunging,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=496.8s	496.8	 which is a great improvement. And look, she's just naturally checking out the water over here. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=501.3s	501.3	 this is healthy. I like this. So give her an opportunity to do that. That's the second time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=505.4s	505.4	 she's naturally just gone up to check out the water. Must smell so interesting over there as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=509.4s	509.4	 well. You can hear the sounds of the rushing waters in the distance as well. And this looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=513.4s	513.4	 different than what she's used to seeing every day. Inertia, come. Yeah, come on. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=523.5s	523.5	 Good. You want this? Or do you just want to continue on? See, right now the currencies kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=528.5s	528.5	 of vary between giving her a treat and just allowing her to continue to advance. So those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=534.2s	534.2	 seem kind of equal right now. I'm choosing those two things, the food and her access to continue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=539.9s	539.9	 the walk as my reinforcing events here. There are times where dogs are so excited to be in a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=545.0s	545.0	 place that they won't even take treats. But if you give them access to the new place, they're like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=549.4s	549.4	 I would much rather that every dog is different. So always keep that in mind. She's distracted by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=554.2s	554.2	 a ground scent and I really like how she's following right now. So that's good. Lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=560.0s	560.0	 Yes. Stand, stay, lie down. Stand, stay, and lie down. Lie down. And okay. It's not always just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=573.6s	573.6	 about teaching them constantly and making them a robot. And it's not always about letting them do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=578.5s	578.5	 whatever they want. So you kind of have to balance those things. All right, let's test come when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=583.4s	583.4	 called. Ready? Inertia, come. Come on. Yeah, good girl. Oops, she got snagged up over there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=593.9s	593.9	 but that was good. Okay, so now we're off the beaten path and I'm sure there's no way there'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=598.1s	598.1	 be any unexpected distractions here. That's okay. This obviously startles inertia and me too,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=606.8s	606.8	 for that matter. In that case, what I had to do was fall back on management. She was too overstimulated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=611.4s	611.4	 to just say, oh, I'm going to ignore that. So I had to hold her to make sure that she didn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=615.9s	615.9	 throw off the hiker. It's my responsibility to manage my dog when I'm in the real world like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=620.6s	620.6	 So that's what you do in lieu of actual training. And also a really good example of why we're keeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=626.6s	626.6	 her on lead. Always prepare for the unforeseen. Come on. Yes. Good. Good girl. Hey, inertia, come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=636.6s	636.6	 One of the most valuable things I'm getting from a training session like this is really practicing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=641.2s	641.2	 cum when called and a strange foreign alien like environment to her inertia. Come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=648.7s	648.7	 There you go. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=653.3s	653.3	 Okay, let's go. Walking with your dog on a long lead like this really allows you to test their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=658.6s	658.6	 natural tendency to stay with you or their train tendency. I mean, has your training been working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=663.3s	663.3	 or does it need work? Long lead will help you know where you stand in terms of having a reliable dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=668.9s	668.9	 off leash in the future inertia. Come let's throw her a wild card this time. Stay lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=679.0s	679.0	 Good girl. That's very good. Okay, come. All right. Good girl. That deserves a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=685.8s	685.8	 That deserves a treat. You're going to give me a heel too. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=690.4s	690.4	 All right. Thanks. I appreciate it. Let's see how she does with Brisbane. Good. So yeah, it looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=697.5s	697.5	 like she does show interest in the frisbee even out here, which is neat. Haven't you noticed that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=701.9s	701.9	 with your own dogs, they'll do some things in some places, but not others. That's why we constantly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=707.1s	707.1	 test and expose and desensitize our dog to new areas like this and train them. There's so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=712.9s	712.9	 repetition involved when you're raising a dog, if you really want them listening to you everywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=717.7s	717.7	 And there's no way to fast forward life experience at all for them. So it's not that they don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=722.5s	722.5	 understand the skills. It's that they don't understand that they need to listen to these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=726.3s	726.3	 skills everywhere. That's the hard part. But it's really not that hard. It's a lot of fun,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=731.0s	731.0	 actually, as long as you have the right attitude. Get $10 off your first three automatic pet food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=737.3s	737.3	 shipments from PetFlow. When you enter my special discount code, Zack30 at checkout.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=741.7s	741.7	 Subscribe to my channel and get both of my books if you want the maximum amount of help training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=745.9s	745.9	 your dog. Follow us on Instagram and TikTok to see how Inertia is doing in real time every single day.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=751.7s	751.7	 All of the links are in the description of this video. In the next episode, we're celebrating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLLFyQwp1Qo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=277&pp=iAQB&t=755.8s	755.8	 Inertia's first birthday. What do you think we should do? Tell me in the comments below.
