https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 In today's episode, I'm finally going to teach inertia a brand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=3.2s	3.2	 new trick that she's never learned before. I'll teach her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=5.5s	5.5	 about boundaries so she knows where she can go and where she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=8.2s	8.2	 can't. And I'll also continue to work with inertia on being more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=11.1s	11.1	 brave around scary things. I'm Zach George, I train dogs. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=15.5s	15.5	 is my new dog. And I'm going to show you how I train her from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=18.3s	18.3	 day one. Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=22.2s	22.2	 start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere. Subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=25.5s	25.5	 and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=28.3s	28.3	 When you put into motion an approach based on love and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=30.8s	30.8	 respect, your results will forever remain in motion. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=34.8s	34.8	 is inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience. In Ursa,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=40.6s	40.6	 what are you trying to tell me right now? I think she wants to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=43.4s	43.4	 see what's in her pup box this month. This is the 11 month old
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=46.6s	46.6	 box. They send you items and supplies and things you need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=50.1s	50.1	 based on your dog's specific age. They give you guidance here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=53.3s	53.3	 on what you should be working on throughout the month. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 motivation level is so high when you get your pup box because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=58.5s	58.5	 you get all kinds of ideas. Let's see what we've gotten here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=61.2s	61.2	 This is going to be a really valuable toy for her. So I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 to keep toys like this out of reach when they really like them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=66.6s	66.6	 and just use them for training and currency. Let's see what's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=69.6s	69.6	 next. While this is a plush toy inertia also likes other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=73.0s	73.0	 textures too. And I think that's really important. This is yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=75.7s	75.7	 another thing that you can use to play with your dog or use it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=78.4s	78.4	 for training too. Here's a high quality chew. I like to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=80.9s	80.9	 these to inertia when I'm just having her check out for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=83.7s	83.7	 second. But she doesn't just like to play. She loves treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=86.4s	86.4	 too. And obviously you need good treats when you're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=88.6s	88.6	 train your dog you want to have something to incentivize them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 learn new things. Let's see how she feels about the duck treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=94.9s	94.9	 Safe to say she likes the duck treats. These are really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=98.1s	98.1	 to give your dog like an extra treat or if they're picky eater
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=100.9s	100.9	 you can put them on top of their food. Between the advice and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=103.2s	103.2	 products you get with a pup box, it's a great way to keep you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=106.1s	106.1	 extremely proactive and on offense when it comes to your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=108.7s	108.7	 training. So if you're a new puppy parent pup boxes will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=111.5s	111.5	 genuinely help you pup box is going to give you 50% off of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 your first box when you sign up for a three six or 12 month
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=118.8s	118.8	 subscription. Go to pup box.com slash Zack and enter discount
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=122.7s	122.7	 code Zack I'll have that link and code in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=125.4s	125.4	 below. It is springtime here in Atlanta and we have a deck out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=129.4s	129.4	 here and we have a pair of doors that we like to open out. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=133.8s	133.8	 I've recently encountered something that's been a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=135.8s	135.8	 bit challenging with inertia. We love letting her hang out out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=139.1s	139.1	 here. She likes the outdoors as much as we do, but sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=141.6s	141.6	 she'll get really distracted. The park over here has a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=144.7s	144.7	 dogs and people walking by. She might see a squirrel or any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=148.2s	148.2	 other number of things. I really want her to recognize the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=151.5s	151.5	 threshold here and the boundary so that I can easily call her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=155.2s	155.2	 back and have her remain inside. Another example is why you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=158.5s	158.5	 might want to do this. Maybe we have the doors open, it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=160.8s	160.8	 raining outside and I don't want her tracking water in and out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=163.6s	163.6	 of the house. Right now she's under the impression that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=165.9s	165.9	 these doors are open back here, she's free to walk around and I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=169.1s	169.1	 need to change that perception. This is a good opportunity to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=171.6s	171.6	 practice her spontaneous stay or emergency stay. So let's test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 her spontaneous stay. I want to confirm that she'll stay with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=179.4s	179.4	 very minimal notice here. Let's go come on. Stay. Oh, she thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=185.6s	185.6	 about it. Let me just get her a little warmed up there. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=188.2s	188.2	 Let's go. Stay. So right there I had to pause, tell her to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=192.6s	192.6	 and really explain it. Good job girl. Okay. Give her a toss of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=196.0s	196.0	 the ball. All right, come on. Let's go. Stay. That wasn't too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=200.2s	200.2	 bad. But again, she's on the deck there. So I do want her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=203.4s	203.4	 inside. I really want her to understand that inside means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=206.5s	206.5	 inside. Back up. Good. Stay. Back up. Looking good there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=211.2s	211.2	 Like that. Okay, good. The pup box toy is awesome. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=216.0s	216.0	 look how focused she is on me. It's important, whatever currency
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=219.0s	219.0	 you're using that your dog really be focused on you for it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=221.6s	221.6	 Let's go. Stay. Okay, good. So she's pretty good when I ask her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=227.6s	227.6	 to stay and my thinking is if I do that several times in a row,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 she'll start to get in the habit of looking to me before she goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=233.4s	233.4	 out there onto the deck. Come here. Let's go. Stay. Okay, come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=241.8s	241.8	 Stay. The idea here is to get her to anticipate the stay ahead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=245.2s	245.2	 of time and just really get her in the habit of doing that. It'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=248.5s	248.5	 take some practice and lots of consistency to make sure that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=251.6s	251.6	 she gets in the habit of checking in with me before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=253.9s	253.9	 crossing this threshold. These kinds of things are trained 30
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=257.2s	257.2	 seconds at a time. So just taking a little bit of time to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=259.9s	259.9	 be very consistent about this will get you to where you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=262.8s	262.8	 to be. I'm now going to make the exercise a little bit more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 challenging to her just to really burn it into her brain.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=268.5s	268.5	 Look, you stay here. No matter how much you want to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=271.4s	271.4	 something. She really loves the toy. I throw it out the door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=274.2s	274.2	 There's clearly no hesitation to just run out there and get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=277.6s	277.6	 So this toy is going to be an awesome distraction. You might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=280.3s	280.3	 notice I do a lot of training at door thresholds. I think they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=283.3s	283.3	 very important. It's important for your dog to understand where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=286.3s	286.3	 the house is and what their limits are and where they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=288.2s	288.2	 allowed to go and where they're not. And some areas are okay to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 go to sometimes and not at other times. Let go. Stay. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=303.9s	303.9	 verbally intervene like this sparingly with inertia. But if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=306.6s	306.6	 you find yourself saying too much to your dog, then they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=309.5s	309.5	 probably not yet prepared for the training exercise you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=311.9s	311.9	 doing. So take a step back and make it easier for them. Okay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=315.9s	315.9	 good girl. That was tough. Or did you see her? She really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=319.0s	319.0	 flinched and thought about going after it. So I'm confident
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=321.8s	321.8	 that she'll hold her stay when I tell her to but I'd like to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=325.0s	325.0	 on to the next phase of training this which is just having her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=327.6s	327.6	 hold an extended stay in here. So let's go for a 60 second stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=331.7s	331.7	 Hey Siri set a timer for 60 seconds.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=343.7s	343.7	 She's starting to understand context because we've done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=345.9s	345.9	 these extended down stay lessons and so many different contexts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=350.0s	350.0	 right now I really feel like it's starting to pay off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=357.6s	357.6	 I threw my shoes just to give her an unexpected distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=361.6s	361.6	 All right. Okay, good job. Go get it. So that was good. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 a nice 60 second stay. That's a good start. That's something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=370.7s	370.7	 I'll continue to do with her and then focus on working up to five
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=373.1s	373.1	 minutes and longer over time. The bottom line is teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=375.8s	375.8	 to respect boundaries, especially those leading from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=378.2s	378.2	 inside to outside. There's something that I have been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=381.6s	381.6	 meaning to teach inertia and I have never waited this long to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=386.5s	386.5	 teach a dog this particular thing. And that thing is speak.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=390.6s	390.6	 The reason it's taken me so long to train speak is in my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=394.2s	394.2	 experience in the past, with an immature dog, it can get a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=398.0s	398.0	 out of control. And the same way that she offers sit pretty or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=401.1s	401.1	 offers lie down in order to get a treat. She'll also start to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=404.3s	404.3	 offer speak a lot and that can get kind of obnoxious. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=408.1s	408.1	 she's old enough now at 11 months, our relationship has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=411.3s	411.3	 advanced enough where I can more easily and fluidly communicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=415.0s	415.0	 with her on things like I don't want you to bark over and over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=419.0s	419.0	 again without permission. Inevitably, it's going to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=421.6s	421.6	 phase that she goes through after we teach this, I'm sure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=424.6s	424.6	 But if it does happen, I'll show you how I work through it. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=427.4s	427.4	 way that I like to teach speak is just hold up a treat for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=430.2s	430.2	 dog and let them brainstorm. Most dogs will start to make some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=433.0s	433.0	 kind of subtle noise while they're trying to figure out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=435.4s	435.4	 what you want. Yes, good. I had a vocalization there. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=439.7s	439.7	 why I'm rewarding it. As soon as they make any sound at all,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=442.7s	442.7	 even if it's not a bark reward that it's important to let your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=445.8s	445.8	 dog know when they're on the right track, you might find that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=448.2s	448.2	 when you first hold up the treat that your dog starts to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=450.2s	450.2	 offer you a variety of other behaviors that they've learned.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=452.8s	452.8	 I mean, who could blame them? It worked in the past, right? At
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=455.2s	455.2	 first, it's like the noises they make are almost an accident and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=458.4s	458.4	 you just need to be there. Yes, really subtle vocalization. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=462.5s	462.5	 you just have to be there to acknowledge it. So she may think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=464.8s	464.8	 it means play dead and bark. But when you're trying to get a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=467.5s	467.5	 trick, you just take it any way you can get it. And then you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=470.4s	470.4	 refine it from there. I do want to discourage the play dead. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=473.4s	473.4	 let me get a little pickier here and see if I can encourage her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=476.8s	476.8	 to just hold a regular position and let her know it's the bark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=480.0s	480.0	 I'm going for. I'm going to withhold on that vocalization
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=483.0s	483.0	 because I want to really try and get her back on to the just sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=486.4s	486.4	 or stand and speak or even lie down. Look at her eyes. So you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=490.2s	490.2	 can just see her eyes brainstorming, trying to figure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=493.5s	493.5	 it out. Yes. What? That was a good one. That's called speak.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=498.1s	498.1	 Yes. Good. You can see she's starting to get the hang of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=501.3s	501.3	 this. So why don't I try adding the word now? I'm going to say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=504.5s	504.5	 it as she does it because she's getting somewhat predictable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=508.7s	508.7	 When you first start to teach your dog a word, speak, say the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=513.2s	513.2	 word as they do the thing you want not before they do it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=518.2s	518.2	 Speak inertia is picking this up really fast. And since she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=521.5s	521.5	 barking consistently now I think I can start to say the word
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=524.4s	524.4	 speak just before she barks. Speak. Yes. Let me try and get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=531.6s	531.6	 three speaks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=537.3s	537.3	 Yes, I'm curious to see if she's really generalizing speak right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=541.0s	541.0	 here. Let me ask her to do it while in another position. Speak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=544.3s	544.3	 Ask your dog to do things while you're in a different position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=547.1s	547.1	 or location is a great way to help them start to generalize the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=550.2s	550.2	 behavior in different contexts. That way they'll speak anywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=553.9s	553.9	 and not just in your living room when you're standing right in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=556.5s	556.5	 front of them, for example, will she do it while I look at her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=558.7s	558.7	 from a distance? Speak. Yes. Will she do it from a lie down? I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=565.7s	565.7	 don't know. Lie down. Speak. Not quite. She gets that one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=571.0s	571.0	 confused. Lie down. Stay. Look at me. Speak. Yes. See before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=578.2s	578.2	 she could go into the play dead right there. I wanted to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=580.2s	580.2	 acknowledge the vocalization. She's really starting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=582.6s	582.6	 generalize speak. I mean, in one training session. So that went
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=585.6s	585.6	 faster than I thought it would. And she's doing really well. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=588.6s	588.6	 here is the issue I was talking about at the front of our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=590.9s	590.9	 segment is once your dog realizes that speak gets them a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=594.4s	594.4	 treat, they tend to get carried away. So we're going to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=596.7s	596.7	 quiet now. Speak. Yes. Quiet. Yes. So I'm just finding moments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=607.5s	607.5	 of quiet there to reward. Now let me see if I can get her to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=610.7s	610.7	 quiet after barking a few times. Speak. Quiet. Yes. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=620.4s	620.4	 you're looking into her eyes, or you could see she was about to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=622.6s	622.6	 go into the pattern of barking again. So I wanted it quiet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=627.2s	627.2	 Interrupt her just as I did there. And let's see if we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=629.3s	629.3	 get another speak when she looks up. Hey, speak. And quiet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=634.7s	634.7	 Okay, good job. jackpot reward. I'm sure she'll still try to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=639.3s	639.3	 offer speak when she gets excited, but I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=641.5s	641.5	 continue to work with her on that. Off to a great start on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=645.1s	645.1	 speak. Whenever you're trying to teach this or anything else with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=648.1s	648.1	 your dog, just be really consistent with them and be very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=650.6s	650.6	 clear in your communication that takes practice on your part as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=654.0s	654.0	 well as a person and I'm far from perfect on it. But all we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=657.6s	657.6	 can do is continue to try our best and dogs are pretty smart.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=661.4s	661.4	 They're pretty good at reading between the lines. So recently,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=664.5s	664.5	 I was vacuuming the house and I noticed that inertia started to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=668.8s	668.8	 get a little nervous of this new vacuum cleaner we have.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=673.8s	673.8	 How's she reacting to it? She just barked. I didn't even think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=676.7s	676.7	 about it. She's a little she's a little unsure. In the past, I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=680.9s	680.9	 gone through the effort to introduce her to the vacuum and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=683.3s	683.3	 even our Roomba that we have back at our New Orleans house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=686.1s	686.1	 But you know, like every single vacuum cleaner is different. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=689.2s	689.2	 context is different. We're in a different place. Whatever the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=692.2s	692.2	 reason inertia took a step back and started becoming very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=695.3s	695.3	 nervous of the vacuum once it gets turned on. Today's a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=698.2s	698.2	 opportunity to go over our protocol when our dog is nervous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=701.0s	701.0	 of something whether that be a vacuum, a lawnmower, a loud
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=703.5s	703.5	 sound outside or any other number of things. The steps we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=706.6s	706.6	 going to cover today should be helpful to you. Nursher right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=709.5s	709.5	 is being really good. She's holding her stay. She's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=712.3s	712.3	 relaxing. I'm going to go ahead and give her a little treat here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=714.8s	714.8	 just because this is a primary training session. I tend to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=717.7s	717.7	 treat very liberally when I'm very focused on training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=720.2s	720.2	 something specific. Rather than just turn it on, watch what I do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=723.3s	723.3	 here. She got a little nervous there, but I promptly turned it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=728.2s	728.2	 off. Even if she wouldn't have gotten nervous, I would have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=730.3s	730.3	 promptly turned it off there. But that caught her off guard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=732.4s	732.4	 And you can see why. So I want to promptly give her something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=735.2s	735.2	 to let her know, look, everything's okay. We're trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=737.8s	737.8	 to counter condition her. In other words, we want her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=740.1s	740.1	 equating the sound of the vacuum with getting something great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=743.4s	743.4	 All right, I'm going to turn it on ready. Much better. You see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=748.0s	748.0	 that just did it for one quick sec. Good work. Just doing that a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=751.3s	751.3	 couple of times. So let's move on here. Let's see if I can leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=754.5s	754.5	 it on for a little bit longer now. Nice work. So she's quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=759.8s	759.8	 getting that this isn't really any threat to her. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=762.5s	762.5	 nothing to be scared of. But it's when it starts moving that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=765.5s	765.5	 think we might have an issue. So let's ease her into that. Hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=768.8s	768.8	 ready? My goal here isn't to freak her out and then try to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=771.6s	771.6	 fix it. My goal is to prevent her from being nervous of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=774.0s	774.0	 vacuum in the first place. Like clockwork, the second I started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=777.6s	777.6	 to pull the handle back, she got nervous.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=780.4s	780.4	 Yes, I moved it like a half an inch there. And there's a cup.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=785.4s	785.4	 Good. Can you sit? Good. So she's compliant. Yes, stay. As
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=794.3s	794.3	 the handle goes back and it starts to move. She's no dummy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=797.4s	797.4	 She's like, Hey, I see what that thing's about to do. Let's stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=800.7s	800.7	 there. Also notice she's not on leash here. She's free to go at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=803.7s	803.7	 any time. She's choosing to stay on the leash. She's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=807.0s	807.0	 on leash here. She's free to go at any time. She's choosing to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=809.4s	809.4	 stay in the general area. And I want her to work with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=811.9s	811.9	 distance that she's comfortable with when this vacuum is on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=815.0s	815.0	 And remember, when you're working with your dog on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=816.4s	816.4	 anything that makes them nervous, go with their pace.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=818.6s	818.6	 Don't ask for too much at once. Give them freedom to retreat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=821.8s	821.8	 and get space if they're feeling uncomfortable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=827.9s	827.9	 Just kind of moving it very slowly, not too erratically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=831.1s	831.1	 giving her treats at the same time, letting her evaluate from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=834.2s	834.2	 a distance where she's comfortable. And I should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=836.3s	836.3	 stress my goal isn't to actually vacuum my house right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=839.2s	839.2	 now. My goal is just to get her more comfortable. Let me try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=842.0s	842.0	 switching up currencies here and see how she does when I use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=844.9s	844.9	 the toy. Let's see if this gets her in a less nervous frame of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=847.8s	847.8	 mind. Look at her body language. Her eyes are bright. She's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=851.0s	851.0	 like hunched over looking at the vacuum cleaner. But look how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=854.5s	854.5	 she's focused on the toy. You can see she's like, okay, I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=858.4s	858.4	 deal with that sound right there. If you've got a toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=861.3s	861.3	 Ready? Okay. Nice job, girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=865.1s	865.1	 Getting your dog to play around things that throw them off is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=868.2s	868.2	 really powerful way to help them overcome their doubts and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=871.1s	871.1	 concerns. I mean, think about it. It's pretty tough to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=874.0s	874.0	 nervous and have fun at the same time. So if they're having fun,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=877.8s	877.8	 they're probably not that nervous. Lie down. Stay. Yes. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=884.6s	884.6	 so look, she's really holding that stay now that I'm using the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=887.6s	887.6	 ball to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=888.6s	888.6	 get her comfortable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=889.6s	889.6	 Good girl. Good. Okay. She got a little nervous, but she still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=893.8s	893.8	 held her stay. So I want to give her a toy there. Let her run
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=896.2s	896.2	 around with it. Do what she wants. Overall, I'd say she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=898.8s	898.8	 doing a pretty good job. I mean, the goal here again is just to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=901.5s	901.5	 get her comfortable with the vacuum when it's on and not just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=904.7s	904.7	 totally go and hide in a corner somewhere. So when you notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=908.2s	908.2	 your dog getting nervous of something, just take your time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=910.7s	910.7	 dedicate a couple of training sessions to it like we did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=913.1s	913.1	 today, break things down into small steps and go really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=917.7s	917.7	 slow to help your dog understand. So in this case, with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=920.5s	920.5	 the vacuum, we started by turning it on for a brief moment,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=923.2s	923.2	 then rewarding with some treats, eventually working up to having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=926.3s	926.3	 it be on longer while moving, even rewarding with a toy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=929.3s	929.3	 something she values. And so I'm going to continue to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=932.0s	932.0	 this. But I think this was a good way to remind her, look, I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=934.4s	934.4	 know this is a new vacuum. It probably sounds a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=936.8s	936.8	 different than the vacuums you've heard in the past, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=939.0s	939.0	 there's no reason to be nervous of this one any more than there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=941.8s	941.8	 was to be of the other one at our other house. In the next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=944.8s	944.8	 episode, we're going to continue to work on two of the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=947.3s	947.3	 important life saving skills you can teach to a dog, and we'll do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=950.7s	950.7	 more frisbee to if you have a new puppy, you need to sign up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=954.0s	954.0	 for a pop box get 50% off of your first box when you sign up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=957.1s	957.1	 for a three six or 12 month subscription at pop box.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=960.3s	960.3	 slash Zach use discount code Zach I'll have a link below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=963.7s	963.7	 subscribe to this channel and you won't believe the progress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=966.2s	966.2	 that inertia has made since this episode was filmed. Follow us on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=969.4s	969.4	 Instagram and tick tock to see her in real time. Get a copy of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=973.1s	973.1	 both of my books to all of the links will be in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DYIyQUFsEoQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=281&pp=iAQB&t=976.0s	976.0	 of this video. See you guys next time.
