https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 There it is. See that? That's a nice tug. Good. Shake off. I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 my new dog and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one. Things definitely won't always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=13.1s	13.1	 go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere. Subscribe and hit the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=17.9s	17.9	 bell notification so you never miss an episode. When you put into motion an approach based on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=22.3s	22.3	 love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion. This is Inertia. Welcome to the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 training experience. Today we're going to work on continuing to increase Inertia's desire to play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=35.4s	35.4	 We'll also see how she's doing during bath time and I'm going to attempt to start teaching her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=40.2s	40.2	 a new trick too. She's been so conditioned that when she sees her pup box she gets real excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=46.0s	46.0	 If you don't know, pup box is a monthly subscription box. They give you age specific items that make it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=51.5s	51.5	 easier to train your dog and you get this guide every single month as well that keeps you on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=56.1s	56.1	 track with your training. I mean look at this, a bath time scrubber. This is a way to like really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=60.3s	60.3	 effectively scrub your dog in a way that's comfortable for them. What is that? We're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=64.6s	64.6	 to use this definitely. That's a nice one. It's a quality product. And chicken hearts. This is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=69.8s	69.8	 delicacy in many parts of the world just so you know. Go get your toy. Let's see how that retrieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=75.2s	75.2	 is looking. All right she's got it. Come on girl. Let's go. Good. You want this? Perfect. Let's give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 her a reward for that. You want a chicken heart? That's a real chicken heart folks. So you put food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=88.1s	88.1	 in this, they roll it around and food comes out. So for example if your dog is dealing with separation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=93.2s	93.2	 anxiety or they bark when you leave the room, giving them a toy like this is likely to keep them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=98.1s	98.1	 really preoccupied. So I have a whole month's worth of supplies here to use to motivate Inertia and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=104.3s	104.3	 to care for her and train her. So I'm really glad pup box exists. Pup box is going to give all of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=110.1s	110.1	 you 50% off of your first pup box when you sign up for a three, six or 12 month subscription.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=115.4s	115.4	 Just go to pupbox.com slash Zach and enter discount code Zach. I'll have that linking code in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=120.6s	120.6	 description. I'm going to try something new today. We're going to go on a frisbee walk and see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=124.9s	124.9	 that goes. So a frisbee walk is, well I don't know because I think I just invented it. But I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=132.1s	132.1	 noticed that when we're on a walk she sometimes gets randomly interested in playing and jumping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=137.1s	137.1	 and biting and I think I can convert that enthusiasm into drive for the frisbee. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=141.9s	141.9	 my objective is just to periodically take advantage of times when she's naturally into playing to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=147.3s	147.3	 if I can really intensify her intensity in the game. We're doing it just a normal walk as far
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=152.5s	152.5	 as she's concerned, letting her smell around, letting her get adjusted to the outdoors. I'm prepared
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=157.1s	157.1	 with my frisbee over here when she decides she wants to play. Let me just see something. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=161.8s	161.8	 try to get a baseline sample here for a second. Let's see if I can get her playing tug with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=165.7s	165.7	 frisbee on demand. That's it. Look at that playground. Ready? Let's try a roller. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=172.6s	172.6	 more likely to go after a roller like that than she is a frisbee being thrown in the air. So that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=177.3s	177.3	 good. But tug of war is actually what I'm really after right now because tug is what really evolves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=183.3s	183.3	 into intensity when it comes to frisbee. So I have limited tug right now, but she's pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=188.1s	188.1	 interested. So I'll still take it. Come around. Ready? Go. Nice. Hey, good effort, huh?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=193.9s	193.9	 Good job. But see how she just drops it and loses interest. That's something we're trying to improve.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=199.7s	199.7	 Yeah, go get it. Come on, get it. See that tug's a little lame right now. Gotta get a more intense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=206.0s	206.0	 tug. She's not really grabbing it and holding on. That's what I want. Come on. There it is. See that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 That's a nice tug. Good. Good. And that tug is a real symbol of intensity. Good. Let go. Because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=220.2s	220.2	 watch this. Nice effort. Really good. That's it. See? A little bit more interested in the frisbee.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=228.5s	228.5	 Inertia, this way. Come on. Come on. Good. Yes. Good. Look at that tug. Nice. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=239.4s	239.4	 Oh, good catch. That's one of her best ones right there so far. And see, that's the thing with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=244.6s	244.6	 frisbee and a dog like inertia. It can take a good bit to get them into it. By stopping when she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=249.7s	249.7	 at peak interest, I think we're going to increase the odds that she'll be more interested in it next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=253.8s	253.8	 time too. Good girl. Get it. Good. Let go. And we're going to stop right there. So we keep her really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=260.1s	260.1	 interested and then we'll revisit this maybe in a little bit. Since inertia is only seven months
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 old and not fully grown yet, frisbee lessons like this are kept pretty short and low intensity for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=270.6s	270.6	 now. She stumbled on another frisbee that I brought out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=278.2s	278.2	 Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 This would be a significant moment. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=289.8s	289.8	 Yes. Leave it. Come here. What's this? This would literally mark the very first time that inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=295.5s	295.5	 has disregarded the frisbee she's playing with and decided to go after the additional frisbee.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 Good. Come on. What's this? Oh boy. What do we got here? That does a lot because you're introducing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=307.7s	307.7	 a new dimension to the game using multiple frisbees, which will peak many dogs' interest.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=313.0s	313.0	 Secondly, it lets you set up lots of different exercise options for your dog and cool fancy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=317.8s	317.8	 patterns. See how she's like dying off a little bit? Let me see if I can get her more into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=322.2s	322.2	 game by playing tug. Yes. Yeah. See, this is why tug is important because if you take a step back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=329.3s	329.3	 and start playing tug and getting them really interested in you, then they're more likely to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=333.5s	333.5	 be engaged in the game. Go. See? Just like that. Look at that. That's how you get yourself a catch.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=339.5s	339.5	 One of my next medium term goals with frisbee is to get her playing with more than one disc
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=344.8s	344.8	 at a time. It's a really great way to keep frisbee super extra interesting by introducing multiple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=349.5s	349.5	 frisbees. Let go. Yes. Come around. Good. Go. See? See how unnatural that is? Because she's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=362.1s	362.1	 I was playing with this one and I want to go after that one. That means leaving another one behind.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=367.0s	367.0	 Come on. Let's go. Yes. Come on. Look at that. Good. Inertia. Hey, come on. What's this? What's that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=378.1s	378.1	 Get it. Yeah. See what I mean? You can do stuff like that. Maybe we should just try to do the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=385.4s	385.4	 double for fun and see what her expression is like. The double disc throw is exactly what it sounds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=389.5s	389.5	 like. It's a freestyle frisbee move in frisbee competitions that only a handful of dogs can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=394.1s	394.1	 actually pull off. I wonder if Inertia ever will. Go. One and oh, do you see that? She went for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=405.8s	405.8	 first one. I was hoping that she might glance at the second one. Go. Okay. So we've got a long way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=412.8s	412.8	 to go before she can catch this double, but she's showing promise. Yeah, that's a nice tug. There we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=418.6s	418.6	 go. So after a little break, look at that intensity. So her intensity is increasing slowly, but surely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=424.7s	424.7	 come around and one more. Go. Good. End on a success while she's still into it. Keep her wanting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=433.1s	433.1	 more. By giving your dog an appropriate outlet for their energy like fetch and following a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=437.7s	437.7	 other guidelines, you can resolve all kinds of unwanted behaviors. If you want all of my dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=442.2s	442.2	 training advice in one place, pick up both of my books and subscribe to this channel. I'll have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=446.8s	446.8	 links in the description. So why don't we check and see how inertia is doing in the bath? It's been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=452.8s	452.8	 a while since we've done a bath update. I've given inertia several baths at this point. And while she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=457.8s	457.8	 does have some nervousness in the bath, she generally does very well, but it's still a delicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=462.4s	462.4	 process. So I think it's really important to tread pretty lightly during this bath.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=467.2s	467.2	 Get the temperature right. Good girl. Yes. Very good. I'm going to go real gentle since, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=473.4s	473.4	 it's normal for dogs throughout that first year to feel a little nervous of the water and everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=479.4s	479.4	 So we're going to go nice and slow with her. Be really understanding. See this? A little reassurance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=486.8s	486.8	 Yes. Doesn't that feel nice? No. And remember, we've worked up to this over time by giving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=493.3s	493.3	 inertia lots of treats and positive experience along with her baths. Even though she's a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=499.1s	499.1	 more nervous here, I've given her enough baths where I feel like she's going to recover in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=502.8s	502.8	 moment. But if your dog were extremely nervous, you would want to go even slower than this. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=510.3s	510.3	 Good job. You're so dirty.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=512.1s	512.1	 Oh, this reminds me that I probably need to use a non-slip surface for inertia in the future.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=517.0s	517.0	 You can see here that inertia may be feeling a little bit anxious here by the way she's licking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=520.5s	520.5	 her lips repetitively, though it might also be the water I got on her face too. Be mindful of body
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=525.4s	525.4	 language like lip licking and yawning when you're training your dog in a potentially stressful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=529.7s	529.7	 situation. This is your cue to go easy. She's pretty tolerant of the bath. I really think that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=535.4s	535.4	 because I was really cautious and careful. I was very careful when I was licking her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=540.1s	540.1	 I was really cautious and careful about introducing her to the bath and making it a fun experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=546.3s	546.3	 Good girl. I'd say she's wet enough now. I've been using this shampoo. I'm almost out of it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=551.4s	551.4	 but I got this in a pup box as well and I love it. So we're going to get her all set it up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=557.0s	557.0	 We got this bath scrubber in our pup box, so I'm really anxious to use this. I love this one. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=562.3s	562.3	 is nice. It's really easy to grip too, but it really allows you to get all the way through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=566.6s	566.6	 their skin rather than just rubbing, you know, and it really allows you to get super good suds.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=571.9s	571.9	 And she's loving it. Most dogs seem to love it anyway. I mean she's doing really well. You think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=576.7s	576.7	 she's seven months old right now and she's very tolerant of the bath. Wait. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=587.4s	587.4	 Good thing about bath time too, it's a really good time to build trust with your dog and really build
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=593.0s	593.0	 communication with them. You can see how her training is coming together. I asked her to wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=597.6s	597.6	 even though you know she doesn't want to. It's also a really good time to teach them how to shake off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=601.9s	601.9	 on cue. Shake off. I'm going to capture the behavior. Hey, you did a great job. Can you shake off?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=613.2s	613.2	 Shake off. Okay. She doesn't quite know that one. Ready and shake off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=623.5s	623.5	 All right. Shake off. Today I hope to train Inertia how to sit pretty. You know, that's where they sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=632.9s	632.9	 on their butt and they do this and hopefully hold that position. But the thing about teaching sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=637.8s	637.8	 pretty is there's a lot of muscle memory involved with it. So it's not the type of thing you typically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=641.7s	641.7	 train in one session. I'm going to be using a clicker today. Remember the click just means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=645.5s	645.5	 good dog. I like that. You win a piece of meat. I think it's extra important to use a clicker in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=649.8s	649.8	 the beginning stages of training, especially if you're new to training a dog because it helps you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=654.2s	654.2	 get better with timing. Naturally, your dog is going to have to know how to sit before you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=657.7s	657.7	 teach sit pretty. So that's a prerequisite. So let's see where she is. Really what I'm watching here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=662.1s	662.1	 are her hips over here to make sure she's nice and balanced, not leaning to one side, not one leg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=666.8s	666.8	 tucked under the other because you want her to have a good foundation. I'm continuing to click and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=670.4s	670.4	 reward here just to let her know I like that she's engaged and paying attention to me while I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=674.2s	674.2	 talking to you. Good. So I'm going to lure her and I'm watching to see if both of these feet get up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=678.9s	678.9	 off the ground. Go ahead, get it. Yes. Did you see that? They just barely got up. And I genuinely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=686.4s	686.4	 have never done a sit pretty training session with inertia because until now she's been too young.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=692.3s	692.3	 You want some? Yes. Good. And you might notice over here, she keeps trying to play dead. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=700.0s	700.0	 being a little bitey right now, a little frustrated because she's like, wait, I thought I learned all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=703.9s	703.9	 of the tricks. So there's still a few more to learn. So I have to really be patient with her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=712.0s	712.0	 I like the play dead too. That's all right. And it's okay to go ahead and reward the initiative
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=716.6s	716.6	 too. That's the kind of thing you just have to figure that out with your own dog. Sometimes it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=720.6s	720.6	 okay to reward the initiative. Sometimes you want to withhold just depending on a variety of factors.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=725.5s	725.5	 Minimizing frustration is a pretty good thing. I'm loving the way that play dead is looking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=730.6s	730.6	 Good job. Come alive. No, no, come alive. Good job. You might notice I'm not saying sit pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=737.8s	737.8	 or anything like that because she doesn't yet understand the whole trick. So really I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=741.9s	741.9	 focused on getting her into position and just letting her know when she's doing something I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=746.6s	746.6	 like by clicking and rewarding. We'll teach her the actual word later. Yes. Good. Let me see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=752.4s	752.4	 I can get her to hold that position a little bit more. Oops. And luring her up. Okay. That time I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=759.0s	759.0	 did elect to go ahead and reward her even though she broke that sit position just to keep her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=763.9s	763.9	 engaged. It's all about the lure with sit pretty. If you go too high, they jump up off the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=769.1s	769.1	 like that and we don't want them jumping up. I mean, when we teach her to walk on her hind legs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=773.0s	773.0	 if we ever do, that would be good, but that's not what we're focused on right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=777.2s	777.2	 So it's just, I mean, you want to keep that lure just glued to their nose. Yes. Yes. Good. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=782.2s	782.2	 accidentally clicked twice there, but that was perfect. Sometimes I get really excited over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=787.4s	787.4	 these things. That was actually my goal for this training session. Just a little bit of extra effort
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=792.2s	792.2	 to hold that position. So I'm going to keep that lure really. Yes. Good. That was awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=798.0s	798.0	 Let me keep the momentum going. Yes. Do you see how clumsy she is when she goes up there? The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=801.9s	801.9	 muscle memory takes time. You can't do that in one training session. Even though I'm holding a small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=806.6s	806.6	 treat in my hand, I'm still not letting inertia access it until I click. That's when I'll release
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=811.3s	811.3	 a little piece of the treat for her to nibble on. Yes. I don't even mind that she's grabbing onto
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=815.9s	815.9	 my arm there. If that helps her, that's fine to help her balance. Let me try a bigger piece of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=821.0s	821.0	 treat gear and see if I can encourage her to nibble on it. Nope. I don't like the way she's sitting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=829.0s	829.0	 Yes. Good. Good. Each time I'm clicking here, I'm releasing a bit of the treat. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=835.5s	835.5	 We're off to a good start on Sip Ready. I'll continue to work with her on that and hopefully
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=838.8s	838.8	 we'll see that get better. If you want to see how inertia is doing today, follow us on TikTok and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=843.3s	843.3	 Instagram. Go to pupbox.com slash Zach and enter discount code Zach to get 50% off of your first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=848.6s	848.6	 Pup Box. Subscribe to my channel and get my books for all of my training advice in one place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiySI1jsLtE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=294&pp=iAQB&t=853.3s	853.3	 In our next episode, we'll see how inertia is doing on her neighborhood walk and much more.
