https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Oh my gosh, total distraction central right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=7.3s	7.3	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog, Inertia. I'm taking you along as I train her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=13.8s	13.8	 from day one. You can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning. Welcome to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=19.4s	19.4	 the dog training experience. In today's episode, we're going to encounter some of the most major
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 challenges we've ever encountered in our training. It takes less than a minute to eliminate one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=30.6s	30.6	 the most significant minor inconveniences in your life. None of us ever need to be caught off guard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=35.7s	35.7	 and be forced to make an emergency run to the store ever again to get our pet's food. Technology
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=40.6s	40.6	 and PepFlo have solved this issue. Go to PepFlo, choose your dog's food, tell them how often you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=46.1s	46.1	 want it delivered. Every two or three weeks is generally pretty good and PepFlo will just make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 sure that it's at your front door whenever you need it and you don't even have to tell them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=54.6s	54.6	 send it. Give it a shot and see if it's for you. You'll get $10 off your first three automatic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=59.0s	59.0	 shipments just to try it out when you enter code ZACH30. I'll have a link in that discount code in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=63.4s	63.4	 the description of this video. Okay, we're on vacation in Corpus Christi, Texas and I want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=68.4s	68.4	 take Inertia on a walk around these incredible new distractions and show her more of this wonderful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 world that we live in. Right off the bat, Inertia saw her first deer or more like 20 deer. Something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=79.2s	79.2	 tells me this is going to be a very challenging walk for sure. It is morning right now and I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=84.4s	84.4	 anxious to go take a walk with Inertia and do some training with her to see how she does in this new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 place. But she's pretty energetic right now and it looks like she's a little more into the toy than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=94.5s	94.5	 she was last time. Maybe I can get some of that overflowing energy out and we'll see if that'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=99.6s	99.6	 help us on our walk. My main objective right now again is just to get some of that energy out because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 one of the reasons dogs behave pretty erratically on a walk is because they have overflowing energy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=109.1s	109.1	 So it becomes really frustrating to walk them if you haven't appropriately exercised them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=114.2s	114.2	 Yeah almost almost she's really excited by the toy. Go get it! There we go. Let's see what happens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=122.2s	122.2	 if we throw the ball. No she wants this okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=130.6s	130.6	 There we go. So we're in a normal regular neighborhood on the coast here in Corpus Christi
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=136.1s	136.1	 and we're going to see how she does in this new environment. How she does on a walk. She's bound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=141.0s	141.0	 to encounter new sights, smells, sounds. We hear different birds in the background immediately. We
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=145.9s	145.9	 saw deer a moment ago. These are things that she's never experienced before. I expect her to be quite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=150.9s	150.9	 distracted on this walk. So it's going to be a fine balance between letting her see new things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=156.1s	156.1	 and also getting her to check in with me and listen to me periodically. I'm not expecting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=161.1s	161.1	 perfection here obviously. Let me at least let her know I've got something good though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=165.4s	165.4	 Okay what's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 Sit. So I can get a sit from her. See that? I like to do that to see if they're in a trainable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=173.2s	173.2	 mindset. Okay let's go this way. Yeah nice job. Easy. Come on let's go. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=187.8s	187.8	 Remember we have two currencies we're working with here. I'm giving her food from time to time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=192.2s	192.2	 and she's also enjoying the environment which is very reinforcing and stimulating to her. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=200.3s	200.3	 Good nice loose leash. I love it. Look we have deer right over here in the distance. There's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 whole bunch of them. Hopefully they're friendly. I don't know if Inertia notices them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=212.4s	212.4	 Oh she's looking over there. Wow there's so many deer. Easy. Right there she's pulling ahead a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=219.1s	219.1	 little too much. Inertia come back here. Let's go. Good. Yeah that's right. Good job. Easy. Oh wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=227.8s	227.8	 wait. Easy. Inertia sit. It's a good time to remind you that dogs pull on leash because they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=235.7s	235.7	 just walk faster than we do. Wait sit. Okay good. And so teaching them how to walk slowly does take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=245.9s	245.9	 some effort. Okay so we're having an issue right here. Inertia come on let's go. See she's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=254.5s	254.5	 focused on this ground set in this new place. Inertia come on. Right there. Can't get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 attention. Lots of tension on the leash when I try to move forward. So let me see if I can work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=266.7s	266.7	 through this. Okay let's go. Good job. Come on. We're coming up to a road that has a bit more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=275.6s	275.6	 traffic on it here. We're gonna stop. Pull over to the side. You can hear a lot of traffic so it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=283.9s	283.9	 important that she's not acting crazy in this situation right here. Good job. Yes. Love that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=292.3s	292.3	 Sweet. So here I'm just gonna hang out for a second because it's really important to me that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=296.4s	296.4	 she learn how to hold her sit at an intersection like this. Sit. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=307.6s	307.6	 Okay let's go. All right we're gonna rush across here while we can.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=317.2s	317.2	 Good job. Good job. Nice work. See right there. She tried to pull back towards the street. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=323.8s	323.8	 no good. Okay leave it alone. I mean training your dog to ignore ground sense is good luck.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=333.2s	333.2	 It takes a lot of effort and it's a fine line between checking out the ground sense and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=339.0s	339.0	 completely ignoring them. Like it's okay in my mind on a casual walk for your dog to check out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=344.0s	344.0	 ground sense but we don't want them fixating on them and just holding up the walk because of it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=348.6s	348.6	 Okay come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=352.2s	352.2	 Look there's deer over there. Look at this. There's so many deer in this area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=356.5s	356.5	 Know they go running away. Good girl Inersia. Yes. This is actually really good right here. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=361.5s	361.5	 kind of what I had in mind for more acceptable behavior on a walk. I mean she's a little erratic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 but she's literally never been here ever so that's why I'm being pretty lenient.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=374.7s	374.7	 That combined with the fact that she's so young right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 Come on. Easy. Let's go ahead and throw a pop quiz at her. I'm gonna ask her to sit randomly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=385.3s	385.3	 Inersia is overstimulated right now as is common with young dogs like this so I'm going to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=389.6s	389.6	 her aware that I'm willing to give her something good in exchange for her listening to my basic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=394.2s	394.2	 request of sit in this case. Good girl. Yes. Good. What is that? Look at her. Something she's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=404.2s	404.2	 this looks different ahead and I don't know exactly what she's taking stock of but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=410.4s	410.4	 it could be the Gulf of Mexico over here. What do you think Inersia? Want to go check it out?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=415.6s	415.6	 Let's go. Come on. Go. Yeah you can just see her body language is different. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=423.2s	423.2	 stiffened up a little bit. Maybe it's these poles over here sticking out of the ground. Let me see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=429.6s	429.6	 Let me let her explore here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=434.2s	434.2	 Okay come on. Let's go. Let's go check this out over here. Come on. This way. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=442.3s	442.3	 Easy. So a little too much tension right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=447.3s	447.3	 And something I'm doing right now is I'm kind of falling into this trap of continuing to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=452.2s	452.2	 ahead even though I'm pausing intermittently but I probably should keep her on her toes a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=456.6s	456.6	 bit better by being a little more erratic in my direction. So I'm going to actually go back here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=462.0s	462.0	 and kind of work my way back. Yeah good job. Very good. She's really noticing this flock of birds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=469.0s	469.0	 over here. Okay let's go. Yes easy. Nice work. Look at the tension here on the leash. See that tension?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=480.5s	480.5	 I don't like that. Wait. Good. I do like that. That's good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=487.4s	487.4	 So this is great. I like that she's not being too reactive towards the pigeons. Are these just simple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=492.3s	492.3	 pigeons? Oh how funny. There are so many exotic birds in this part of the world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=497.0s	497.0	 and those are just pigeons. Okay let's go. Good girl. Yes. Very nice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=505.5s	505.5	 You hear that? Look at that. Yes. Good girl. I mean so I mean boy couldn't get a better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=513.6s	513.6	 I mean boy couldn't get a better distraction than that could you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=517.7s	517.7	 You get the sound of the wings slapping. They fly in her face and look they land right back down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=522.7s	522.7	 Oh that's so interesting. These are like proper rural pigeons. They're not city pigeons. They're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=529.0s	529.0	 organized and look how she just wants to sit and observe this. This is exactly the kind of thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=533.7s	533.7	 that if you can do with your dog a lot it really helps them understand the world they live in.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=541.7s	541.7	 Looks like they have some construction going on down here and that's something I've really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=545.0s	545.0	 been wanting to prioritize with her is getting her comfortable around louder or unusual sounds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=550.6s	550.6	 like construction. So you can see right now Inertia is noticing the activity going on over here because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=556.6s	556.6	 you know she's a smart dog but she's not too concerned about it. She's more concerned about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=561.0s	561.0	 what's going on right around her I guess. I mean that's good. Just giving her simple exposure to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=565.7s	565.7	 this stuff and seeing how she reacts is really an important part of raising a dog. I mean a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=571.3s	571.3	 dogs would be like oh those loud noises are weird. I'm scared. I'm panicked or they would start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=575.9s	575.9	 barking and charging at them like really wanting to go investigate them. We're really just looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=580.2s	580.2	 for a hey I noticed that. Okay cool. You know that that's kind of the ideal behavior in my mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=587.1s	587.1	 anyway. Come all of this way to admire this wonderful beauty and we're focusing on a construction site.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=594.0s	594.0	 Let's make our way kind of back but let's see how she does because we've been through this path that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=598.6s	598.6	 we're about to take back and I'm curious to see if she reacts the same way or if she's more difficult
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=603.6s	603.6	 less difficult in terms of pulling right here. She's you know decided I don't want to continue on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=609.0s	609.0	 I'm going to lie down right here and smell. Go at this. Sit. Good. Yes. So really borderline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=616.6s	616.6	 listening right now. She's taking the treat a little bit. Good. Yes. Okay. But now she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=624.6s	624.6	 she's pretty in and out. Contrary to popular belief teaching a dog to walk slowly next to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=629.6s	629.6	 a person on leash takes an extended period of time for many dogs. In other words it's a more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=634.6s	634.6	 intermediate to advanced skill. The early stages of teaching a dog to walk nicely on leash can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=639.4s	639.4	 really look like a mess. It's important not to get too distracted by looking for total perfection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 and instead focus on every small instance when your dog does something better than they did before.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=650.6s	650.6	 Nice job. So I'm just spontaneously moving around to kind of keep her focused on me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=656.0s	656.0	 looking at the birds. See the birds up here. These blackbirds. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=665.3s	665.3	 More dogs in the neighborhood. That's good. I like that generally when dogs are barking in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=670.2s	670.2	 distance she'll notice them. She doesn't usually go too crazy about them which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=675.4s	675.4	 probably because we've done a lot of exposure around neighborhood dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=680.2s	680.2	 Wow. See that. Yeah. It's like as a trainer I didn't expect the dogs to be right there. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=687.4s	687.4	 we're just going to see now we're getting a reaction out of her but let me I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=691.0s	691.0	 create distance right now. There's deer down here. Oh my gosh. We've got this total distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=698.4s	698.4	 central right here. So right here I'm just going to manage my dog. What you do when you're surprised
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=704.9s	704.9	 like that and you can't really just train them in that immediate situation focus on management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=709.6s	709.6	 having them on leash getting them away from that distraction maybe pull off to the side over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=714.3s	714.3	 Now it's gotten a bit quiet. Now let me see if I can get her to sit because she's pulling she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=719.0s	719.0	 aroused so she's really hard to communicate with. There we go. Right now she sees another pedestrian
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=725.4s	725.4	 she's trying to get information on. Come on girl. Let's go. Let's get away from here. Okay. So here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=730.2s	730.2	 I find myself having to gently escort inertia away from a pedestrian who's taking their morning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=734.6s	734.6	 walk. Now it's not ideal to have to do this but if we stood where we were her behavior would likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=739.8s	739.8	 intensify. So creating distance between her and the gentleman walking is my first priority. Of course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=746.3s	746.3	 it's more ideal to intercept your dog before they react in this way but the world is not a perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=751.4s	751.4	 place. She's willing to take treats again. So I just went eight feet away and now she's a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=757.5s	757.5	 easier to communicate with. Okay so the pedestrian that inertia was apprehensive of decided to come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=762.6s	762.6	 up and he really wanted to show inertia that he's a friend and not scary. At first inertia was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=768.2s	768.2	 apprehensive of this man and then she decided to voluntarily approach and had a great experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=773.2s	773.2	 There you go. What a good experience we're giving her. Whoops there we go. Thank you for doing that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=778.5s	778.5	 I mean you can see a walk like that for a six-month-old border collie at least for me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=782.3s	782.3	 training this particular dog is still quite bumpy. There's some success there's some outbursts but the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=788.2s	788.2	 idea is that we continue to trend towards better and better behavior over time but the only way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=793.3s	793.3	 get there is to give her the life experience necessary to know how to process all of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=798.1s	798.1	 things going on around her and reinforce the behavior we like when she does behave ideally.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=803.4s	803.4	 But you know I have to go charge my car now. We found a place to top off our Tesla here before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=808.5s	808.5	 we leave for tomorrow and it's pretty nice area. I think I'm going to do a different kind of walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=813.1s	813.1	 with inertia now. We're going to do a leisure walk instead of a training walk really just to kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=818.2s	818.2	 give her some room to explore. The difference is I'm going to be using a retractable leash so she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=822.8s	822.8	 has a little bit more range to explore things. I'm not going to require her to be as disciplined
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=827.5s	827.5	 with listening to me or anything like that because it is important for dogs to get out there and see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=832.4s	832.4	 things. This is going to be a more wide open area where we're going so I'm not restricted to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=837.4s	837.4	 neighborhood where there are cars everywhere so it makes more sense for her to kind of roam around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=842.1s	842.1	 and sniff around. We'll see how it goes but I do want to test her weight at the crate right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=848.8s	848.8	 Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=853.4s	853.4	 Good. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=857.4s	857.4	 Wait. Swap out those leashes. Okay. And so this is extremely low traffic here so I don't mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=864.8s	864.8	 giving inertia a little bit of room here. Come on let's go. Good girl. Nice work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=872.6s	872.6	 There's a bird.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=878.8s	878.8	 A little jumpy here. Yeah she's immediately getting more excited now as we go up this boardwalk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=885.7s	885.7	 This is going to be inertia's first time on sand. I wonder what she'll make of that. That's sand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=892.2s	892.2	 What do you think? That's got to feel different. A nice new texture for her to experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=897.7s	897.7	 Check it out inertia. Look let's go look at the water maybe. So she's immediately noticing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=903.3s	903.3	 sand and of course the unique smells that only a ocean beach can offer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=911.2s	911.2	 Look at that. First time seeing a wave.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=916.6s	916.6	 She looks she's a little reluctant of it as nice healthy skepticism.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=920.5s	920.5	 Hey that might be a creative way to teach back up right. She's noticing the smells.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=929.8s	929.8	 Oh she sees a bird. Oh look at this. Look at this. She's going in the water chasing a bird.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=935.9s	935.9	 That's exciting. I didn't think she would touch that water so that was kind of a surprise. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=941.0s	941.0	 thought she would be a little nervous of it. And while chasing a bird probably isn't the ideal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=945.0s	945.0	 behavior. She's just going to go in the water and then she's going to go in the water and then she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=948.8s	948.8	 going to go in the water. That probably isn't the ideal behavior long term. I still want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=953.5s	953.5	 nurture inertia's curiosity and bravery when she explores the world like this. The beach is full of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=959.8s	959.8	 lots of interesting stuff that inertia should probably leave alone. Leave that alone. Don't eat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=966.1s	966.1	 the jellyfish. Leave it. Hey leave it. Good girl. Okay let's go. Come on. Nice work. So nice real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=976.2s	976.2	 life leave it opportunity with the jellyfish. Come on. All right doesn't want to leave the branch alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=985.2s	985.2	 So this is a situation where it's like okay check it out but let's move on you know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=989.7s	989.7	 All right come on let's go. Bye. Yes good girl. So I was able to encourage her to keep coming and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=997.5s	997.5	 that was good. Who was that? And see much better that time. So you can see like the birds are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1005.2s	1005.2	 so you can see like a little while ago she got real nervous from the gentleman we encountered on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1010.6s	1010.6	 the walk but this guy she's like oh I'm surprised but okay see you later. Everyone's different. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1016.4s	1016.4	 mean you just never know what it is that your dog's going to react to or how they're going to perceive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1021.4s	1021.4	 certain things so you just want to be there and support them while they experience new things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1025.7s	1025.7	 Get $10 off your first three automatic pet food shipments from Pep Flow by entering code ZACH30
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1031.8s	1031.8	 at checkout. I'll have that link and discount code in the description. Follow us on TikTok
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1036.0s	1036.0	 and Instagram to keep up with Inertia in real time and see how our training is going today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1040.4s	1040.4	 Subscribe to this channel and get a copy of both of my books to really help you train your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1045.1s	1045.1	 In the next episode Inertia will face her biggest challenge yet the French Quarter in New Orleans.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-n3gcJjuvzY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=298&pp=iAQB&t=1061.8s	1061.8	 you
