https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Wait. Oh boy. Is she being protective? Is she gonna bite me? Yeah look at that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=7.0s	7.0	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog, Inertia. I'm taking you along
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=13.6s	13.6	 as I train her from day one. You can start from the beginning or pick up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=17.5s	17.5	 anywhere and start learning. Welcome to the dog training experience. Today, Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=23.2s	23.2	 will display more resource guarding behavior and I'll show you how I continue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 to struggle getting her attention in public. Dogs need to eat every single day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=31.0s	31.0	 and that means you have to make sure their food is always there and now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=34.9s	34.9	 there's a way to never run out of food while at the same time also eliminating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 the need to go to the store. Even if you are willing to go to the big-box stores
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=43.4s	43.4	 to get your dog's food, there's no guarantee they're gonna have the exact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=46.6s	46.6	 formula that you'll want. And if you have to make a substitution, you risk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=50.0s	50.0	 upsetting your dog's stomach. Bottom line, reclaim your time and never run out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=54.7s	54.7	 the food that you want. You can get $10 off your first three automatic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=59.2s	59.2	 shipments from PetFlow when you enter code ZACH30. I'm gonna have the details
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=63.0s	63.0	 and link below. One of the tricks that I want to teach Inertia is how to take a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=67.6s	67.6	 bow. I've just recently started working on this trick and I want to show you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=71.1s	71.1	 guys what it looks like. I'm using a lure right now and you can see Inertia is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=74.4s	74.4	 really motivated by it and I'm just holding it right there. Yes! As she holds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=79.1s	79.1	 that position. Okay. So right now that's one of the big issues is she kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=83.4s	83.4	 puts her butt down prematurely. Chances are if you taught your dog how to lie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=86.5s	86.5	 down with a lure, they're gonna think that that's what you're asking for at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=89.5s	89.5	 first. Really getting them to understand that you want them to keep their behind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=93.2s	93.2	 up while putting their front down can be a little confusing at first. We're gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=97.2s	97.2	 start with really small increments. Yes! Good. Yes! So when her butt does go down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 I'm just withholding the reward, but it's really key not to just continue to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=111.1s	111.1	 repeat that. Even if you have to take a step back and acknowledge just the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=114.8s	114.8	 subtle following of the lure, yes! Like that. Then do that if necessary because it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=119.8s	119.8	 still means your dog is figuring it out. Now let's see if we can go for a longer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=123.8s	123.8	 one. Yes! Yes! Now watch this. Oh! Almost. Yes! Wait. Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Okay! Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=147.2s	147.2	 Wow! She's really nailing this. It's so gratifying when your dog just starts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=152.0s	152.0	 getting the hang of something new like this so quickly. It really motivates you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=156.0s	156.0	 as the trainer and I think it motivates the dog as well because they get this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=158.8s	158.8	 track record of succeeding with you and it makes them want to work with you more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=162.7s	162.7	 and more and that's a really good quality to have in a dog when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=166.4s	166.4	 training them. How's figure eights coming? Let's see. We've been working a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=169.5s	169.5	 bit on figure eights. I'm still having to give her a signal but she's going a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=172.7s	172.7	 little bit more reliably now. She's doing many reps. Yes! Good. Getting a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=178.2s	178.2	 frustrated there I think by biting my pants leg. Yes! Yes! Yeah!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=189.2s	189.2	 Good job. She got a little frustrated there. It's like she was saying I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=192.7s	192.7	 more rewards than that. I'm gonna give her a short break right now just because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=195.6s	195.6	 we've been doing a lot of training. If you like training tricks like this check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=198.6s	198.6	 out my first book. I'll give you instructions on how to teach other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=201.6s	201.6	 tricks. Inertia knows enough things right now that we can start to drill her and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 throw pop quizzes at her to make sure that she understands how to do these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=208.7s	208.7	 things in a variety of contexts. If you've done some basic training with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=212.7s	212.7	 your dog they start to get accustomed to do things in a specific order so it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=216.6s	216.6	 important to mix up those orders. So you know I asked her to sit. Now many people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=222.5s	222.5	 will ask their dogs to lie down after sit right there so that's good but maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=227.5s	227.5	 I might want to have her come back up into a sit and give me a wave instead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=231.1s	231.1	 Sit and wave. Yes! Very good. Nice work. Notice she's doing most of these on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=237.4s	237.4	 first request as well. Stand, wait, good, sit, back into a stand, wait, now wave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=244.5s	244.5	 while standing. Yes! Very good. Sit, good, stand, bow, wait, oh okay that's alright
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=254.5s	254.5	 that one was a new one. I'll reward you for the effort on that one. Let's throw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=257.7s	257.7	 in a few more things. Stand, wait, okay let's go, wait, oh back here. Let's try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=265.3s	265.3	 that again. Stand, wait, okay let's go, wait,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=273.5s	273.5	 sit, wave, good job, stand, wait, leave it alone, look at me, okay, good job. That was really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=293.4s	293.4	 You just kind of freestyle the things that you've been teaching your dog and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=297.3s	297.3	 get really creative with it and try and make sure there's not a decipherable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=301.2s	301.2	 pattern in your technique. Angela the cat's behind us. Let's see if I can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=305.4s	305.4	 her attention on me when she discovers the cat is there. In her she come, she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=308.8s	308.8	 seen the cat. Sit, sit. I barely have her. She's still really intrigued by Angela
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=320.3s	320.3	 the cat but she's been much better about paying attention to her. She's been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=324.6s	324.6	 getting a lot of real-world exposure to Angela mostly when she's playing with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=328.6s	328.6	 Indy because she's generally more interested in Indy than Angela. With
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=332.3s	332.3	 Angela being in the background she gets conditioned to ignoring her and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=335.4s	335.4	 throw in a couple of swats from Angela and she starts to get the message that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=339.2s	339.2	 Angela the cat doesn't really want to have much to do with her right now. Hey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=342.3s	342.3	 Angela, you want to come here? Yes. Good, yes. Okay, say hi. I'm gonna let her say hi. I'm not gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=353.9s	353.9	 pick that battle and I like the peaceful coexistence right now so I guess I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=357.6s	357.6	 let it slide. Oh boy, see she doesn't want to play with you. Good job. Thank you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=365.1s	365.1	 for getting the hints. Okay, all done. Let's go over here. I'm proud of Inersha.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=368.3s	368.3	 She's doing really well around the cat and now for her grand finale. Play dead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=374.4s	374.4	 Okay, come alive and give me a hug. Okay, we haven't practiced that one. Sit. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=382.3s	382.3	 Hugs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=390.1s	390.1	 We're here at puppy socialization class again and this is a you know a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=394.3s	394.3	 different group of dogs than our first class. I'm really curious to see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=398.2s	398.2	 Inersha does with them. Last time we saw them she was kind of the more outgoing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=401.8s	401.8	 dog because she was the oldest dog but it's been a little while now so they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=404.9s	404.9	 probably grown a little bit. I'm excited to see how it goes and the priority of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=408.5s	408.5	 this class is still socialization. However, I'm still curious to see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=412.4s	412.4	 reliable she is at listening to me with treats in this highly distracting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=416.9s	416.9	 environment. In some classes you've seen she's been like, nope, I don't care what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=421.2s	421.2	 you're saying. Even when all of the other dogs are listening it's so embarrassing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=425.3s	425.3	 Wow, she's instantly lighting up here. She definitely realizes where we are.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=429.3s	429.3	 She can't even contain herself. Look at the excitement. Oh, there's other dogs in here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=433.5s	433.5	 Let's go over here. We'll play later. Come on. Jeanette's got a couple of dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=437.2s	437.2	 she's training over here. They're several feet away and at first it was a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=440.6s	440.6	 tough to get Inersha's attention but with treats she's paying attention to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=444.2s	444.2	 semi-reliably. I think if I didn't have a high-value treat right now I wouldn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=447.8s	447.8	 be able to get her attention on me at all. Here, hold on. We're gonna sit. No, we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=451.9s	451.9	 not saying hi right now. You gotta learn to stay. We'll say hi in a minute.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=454.9s	454.9	 I'm trying to prevent the habit of lunging towards a dog early in Inersha's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=458.6s	458.6	 life so on-leash greetings are done sparingly. She's very excited by the new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=462.9s	462.9	 dogs in class. We've got to teach Inersha that just because there's a dog around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=466.7s	466.7	 doesn't mean that we start reacting and running up to them and doing all that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=470.7s	470.7	 other stuff. Time and a place for those things, right? Yes. Good job. In a minute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=476.1s	476.1	 we'll say hi. We're not saying hi right now. She got real excited by Rue over here. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=480.0s	480.0	 channeling her discipline to focus on the chicken right now so that's always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=483.4s	483.4	 good. Pretty close range but she's still quite excitable around any new dog as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=488.8s	488.8	 you can understand. Wait. Ignoring sit here. Let me give her a second and see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=495.7s	495.7	 she'll do it. Yes, that's right. Very good. I know it's hard. It's so hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=506.1s	506.1	 Here I'm just gonna hold her. She's less likely to bark when I hold her. We'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=509.5s	509.5	 just give her a bit of a break. Let her kind of evaluate and take everything in.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=512.9s	512.9	 So overall, I mean, she's reacting pretty well here to the dogs. She has some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=517.2s	517.2	 outbursts but it's not sustained or anything like that and it's worth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=520.3s	520.3	 mentioning too I did exercise her before class so she's less likely to be super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=524.1s	524.1	 amped up. We're gonna practice wait and then we're gonna use the environment as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=527.9s	527.9	 the reward so wait. Okay, go. There we go. I think that it's safe to say that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=535.8s	535.8	 Inertia and Stevie the Great Dane are becoming great friends. Now that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=541.9s	541.9	 had a play session with the dogs I think she's gonna be more attentive so we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=545.6s	545.6	 working on sit and down and stay while in the down position. I'm really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=552.0s	552.0	 encouraged right now that with all of these dogs at really close range like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=556.3s	556.3	 this that she's being a lot more responsive. Look at me. I'm gonna release her from her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=561.1s	561.1	 down real quick. Okay. Just cuz I want to do that before she breaks on her own. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=565.5s	565.5	 gonna see if I can get her to stop looking at the roo over here and get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=568.7s	568.7	 attention on me. Inertia. Yes. Good. She gave me a glance. She's like I'm so bored with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=577.9s	577.9	 down stay. I want to play with the puppies. Can you blame her? I'm gonna try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=581.4s	581.4	 to be a little more engaging and interesting to her. See if I can get a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=584.0s	584.0	 play dead out of her. Wait. Yes. Good job. You know we've been working on bow so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=594.4s	594.4	 let's see how she's doing with that. Whoops. Little confused. Oh. Stand. Wait. Bow. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=602.2s	602.2	 Wait. Wait. Yes. Wait. Yes. Okay. Good job. Wait. Wait. Okay. I'm loving how Inertia is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=623.3s	623.3	 playing more and more respectively. I mean you can see here she's not being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=626.7s	626.7	 too rambunctious nor is she being overly shy. In the past she's been both.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=633.3s	633.3	 Inertia doesn't know what to make of this. Do you know how to play? Oh boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=639.6s	639.6	 Alright. Great puppy class. Along with class it's vital to get out and train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=647.7s	647.7	 in the real world. We're at the park right now and as you know I'm deeply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=652.3s	652.3	 committed to teaching Inertia how to listen in public environments so today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=656.0s	656.0	 we're gonna do some training in public and I'm gonna show you some things that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=660.1s	660.1	 I like to do anyway that make it a smoother process. Let's check in and see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=664.3s	664.3	 how she's doing with stay when I open the crate so I can leash her. That's very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=670.4s	670.4	 good. Automatically wait. I'll give her some guidance. Very good. This is a vital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=675.0s	675.0	 skill but as you're about to see you cannot get overconfident. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=686.5s	686.5	 Wait. Oh boy. Okay see. There's still work to do there. That's exactly why we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=693.7s	693.7	 teach this. There was a failure of weight at the door and I've got her now but look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=697.7s	697.7	 she's out of the car off leash. That's not ideal but let me get her leashed ASAP.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=702.3s	702.3	 Make sure we have full control. That's scary when that happens. Especially in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=705.9s	705.9	 new place because dogs are so enthralled by a new place. There's an area of trees
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=710.8s	710.8	 down here that's gonna put us in a pretty good position to do some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=714.4s	714.4	 desensitizing in public and see how well she listens. Right now we're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=718.4s	718.4	 gonna go through our normal plan here of letting her check out the new place, smell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=721.9s	721.9	 the ground, get familiar with it. There's some moderate pulling going on right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=725.7s	725.7	 which I'm being tolerant of again because she's still pretty young and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=729.4s	729.4	 because she's in a new place. My expectations aren't such that I expect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=733.8s	733.8	 her to walk perfectly and pay attention to me perfectly just yet in a place like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=737.6s	737.6	 this. I mean look there are pedestrians everywhere. There's cars everywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=740.8s	740.8	 There's certainly some amazing smells all over the place. We're gonna go over there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=745.0s	745.0	 because that looks like a perfect area to train. That'll allow us to get a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=748.6s	748.6	 little bit of distance from all of these distractions and it puts us in a better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=752.3s	752.3	 position to kind of alter the distance based on how she's responding. Because see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=756.5s	756.5	 right now look at her she's excited by everybody here. Oh look at this. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=760.7s	760.7	 gonna be great guys. You see the squirrel? I don't know if she's discovered the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=764.1s	764.1	 squirrel yet. Oh she just did. You can add squirrels to the mix. There's so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=768.2s	768.2	 awesome wildlife at this park which is why I like training here because she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=771.9s	771.9	 needs to be able to listen around things like squirrels. In the distance we have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=775.1s	775.1	 these young soccer players. Lots of kids screaming and making sounds. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=779.3s	779.3	 something that she should be familiar with. You see Inertia? She sees the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=782.6s	782.6	 squirrel on the tree over here. Oh boy. Okay Inertia wait. Okay so you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=789.0s	789.0	 where a lot of our training is starting to come together a little bit. She really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=792.5s	792.5	 responded to wait right there and when I asked her to come she came. We've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=796.1s	796.1	 doing a lot of practice simulating stuff like this by tossing treats and toys and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=799.7s	799.7	 other things that she wants to go after. So her impulse control is getting there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=803.9s	803.9	 but look she's not forgotten. Informally I kind of refer to this type of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=807.8s	807.8	 session as screensaver dog training. We have this fixed path over here where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=811.7s	811.7	 people are walking and we're pretty consistent distance away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=816.3s	816.3	 distractions right now. I'm letting Inertia just take in a lot of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=819.5s	819.5	 things that she may not have seen before. I mean there's roosters over here. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=822.6s	822.6	 don't see that every day. So first I'm gonna let her just take it in and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=825.5s	825.5	 I'm gonna try and ask her to do a few things and see how receptive she is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=829.2s	829.2	 listening to those requests. I've deliberately placed us in a position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=832.8s	832.8	 where I can easily change the distance at will. If she started barking at a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=837.4s	837.4	 right here I've got plenty of room to go back there and try to get her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=841.2s	841.2	 on me. The farther away she is presumably from a distraction the more likely she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=845.8s	845.8	 is to pay attention. Conversely if she continues to do well here I can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=849.7s	849.7	 closer and see how she does. I'm really just trying to avoid being caught off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=854.2s	854.2	 guard in an organic real-life instance. I want to take the time to prep her for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=858.4s	858.4	 being in public before just expecting her to listen well while in public. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=863.2s	863.2	 I'm just gonna ask her to do some basic things. Let's see how she does. Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=866.6s	866.6	 come. Okay responsive to come when called. Alright so she's offering a nice settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=872.3s	872.3	 here it looks like. Definitely want to reinforce that. I want to get closer to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=875.9s	875.9	 all these people going by and see how she does. So I don't know we're 10 or 15
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=879.6s	879.6	 meters away from this crowd that's really walking by. She's just now started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=884.1s	884.1	 to take an interest. See if I get her to look at me instead of the distractions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=887.7s	887.7	 Look at me. Yes. I'm gonna be okay with that glance. Wait. Wait. But I'm gonna let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=895.3s	895.3	 her take it in and explore and look. Wait. Got someone running by there that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=900.3s	900.3	 little more enticing than someone walking. Okay good job let me release her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=905.1s	905.1	 there. Let's get a little bit closer and see how she does. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=911.0s	911.0	 Sit. Wait. Let's see how her heel is looking. Okay let's go. Wait. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=919.8s	919.8	 Look at me. Okay let's go. Wait. Good. Look at me. Wait. Okay let's go. Wait. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=936.7s	936.7	 Look at me. Let's go. You see. Okay. Wait. Look at me. That was amazing. Good job. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=951.7s	951.7	 Okay. Wait. And Arsha here. This way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=960.6s	960.6	 Look at me. Good. Okay. All done. You're excellent. Got a little too arrogant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=967.8s	967.8	 there and let go of the leash. This is what so many pet parents do. I probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=971.0s	971.0	 should have been holding on but I could just see it in her eyes that she was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=973.9s	973.9	 pretty glued to the treats. That was incredible. I mean I'm really surprised
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=977.2s	977.2	 that she paid attention to her heel training in this new place around people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=982.2s	982.2	 and everything else that this place has to offer. That was a huge victory. See
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=986.0s	986.0	 this. Leave it. Look at me. Yes. Screen saver dog training is going pretty well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=992.6s	992.6	 right now. This is a pretty medium screen saver. Of course we're gonna work our way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=996.8s	996.8	 up to more exciting screen savers in the future I'm sure but this is a way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1000.6s	1000.6	 start phasing it in and if she passes this test then that tells me she might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1004.7s	1004.7	 be ready for more. After our training session I like to see if I can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1008.1s	1008.1	 inertia to do some fun playing. It kind of seems to seal in their training a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1012.9s	1012.9	 little bit more. I have to get her off of the ground distractions. Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1017.0s	1017.0	 what's this? So she's not really into the frisbee just yet. We'll try again in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1021.8s	1021.8	 sec. See how she does. Let's see if I can test her on the squirrel over here. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1025.5s	1025.5	 see it in the distance. Let me see if I can get it within range and have her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1028.5s	1028.5	 hold her position without chasing the squirrel. Oh look at the squirrel. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1037.5s	1037.5	 It's on the tree. Do you see the squirrel on the tree? Yes. Sit. Nice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1046.7s	1046.7	 Inertia come leave it. Let go. Let go. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1055.3s	1055.3	 Oh well. Okay that was pretty good. Let's go test her around these chickens over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1062.7s	1062.7	 here. Inertia why did the chicken cross the road? To get away from you. Can you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1067.3s	1067.3	 sit? Good job. Very good. Wait. It's very good. Good job. This is amazing. She seemed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1076.0s	1076.0	 to have some apprehension of cars in the past but she seems to be getting over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1080.6s	1080.6	 that now. Hey what are you doing? What is this? Inertia leave it alone. Come on. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1088.0s	1088.0	 way. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Yes. Good job. That was a good example of having to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1094.7s	1094.7	 create distance in a hurry because she became unresponsive. There's a dog over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1099.6s	1099.6	 here on leash. So let's see how she does. I'm not quite as optimistic. Dogs are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1103.9s	1103.9	 very exciting to her. I'm intentionally going to have her sit and hopefully wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1108.6s	1108.6	 at a distance with this approaching dog. I'll selectively and deliberately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1113.3s	1113.3	 emphasize the word wait here but avoid being overly repetitive. I'm gonna up my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1118.4s	1118.4	 rate of reinforcement here. Wait. Good. Good job. Wait. That dog probably is very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1129.6s	1129.6	 aware of her. Wait. Oops. Right there we had a failure. Wait. Yes. Good. Look at me. Okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1140.8s	1140.8	 take a look at me. The corrective action was just not letting her advance towards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1145.3s	1145.3	 the dog. I just kept the leash very still so she wasn't in a position to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1149.3s	1149.3	 reinforced for getting closer to the dog. Hey that was awesome Inertia. So we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1154.3s	1154.3	 near a frisbee golf course over here and she sees these frisbee golfers and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1157.7s	1157.7	 naturally she's curious about them. See her smelling over there. Stay. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1162.7s	1162.7	 Right now she is so much easier to communicate with and she has been in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1166.9s	1166.9	 past training sessions as they go by over here. Let's see how she does.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1170.1s	1170.1	 Remember wait here. That's good. Inertia. Nice. You want to go into a down. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1179.1s	1179.1	 gonna encourage it down because it's more stable. Most dogs are more likely to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1183.6s	1183.6	 hold their position when they're in a down versus a sit. Oh here's another dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1187.5s	1187.5	 coming up over here. Wait. I want to be very clear about my communication. Oh wow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1192.1s	1192.1	 Look at this. She didn't pay that dog much attention at all. We've been out here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1195.5s	1195.5	 about a half hour and she is almost a perfect dog now because we're giving her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1199.5s	1199.5	 lots of time to adjust out here. Looks like I spoke too soon. She's been thrown
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1205.9s	1205.9	 off. She's like who are all these people? This is different. That's okay. Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1211.4s	1211.4	 come on over here. Good job. Yes. Good. That was good. Yes. There we go. So we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1222.5s	1222.5	 starting to get a little spark here after a few attempts. I'm not gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1225.8s	1225.8	 insist she bring it back. I'd rather just keep her into the game right now. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1229.9s	1229.9	 not totally addicted to the game of fetch or frisbee yet. The more that we do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1234.9s	1234.9	 this I think the more likely it is that she'll just love to play almost every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1238.9s	1238.9	 time but I don't know that because not every dog is like that. We don't know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1242.4s	1242.4	 where she is on the spectrum but I have a hunch that we can get her really into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1247.2s	1247.2	 playing frisbee. It's gonna take time. So if your dog is kind of like this and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1251.3s	1251.3	 they're not always interested in the toy keep working with them over an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1254.4s	1254.4	 extended period of time over several months if necessary. Let me try another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1258.3s	1258.3	 toy and see if that sparks her interest in fetch. It could just be that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1262.0s	1262.0	 not interested in the frisbee. What's this? Oh look at that. That's promising. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1267.5s	1267.5	 Let's play a little keep away with it. Yes. Get her. Alright. A little bit interested in the ball. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1277.7s	1277.7	 Let's go. Good. So the ball is her favorite thing of the day so far. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1284.8s	1284.8	 Yes. So I think that was a pretty productive training session. Got her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1292.6s	1292.6	 playing a little bit. Got her listening a fair amount. Steady improvement. Not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1296.7s	1296.7	 perfect nor would I expect it to be at this point. We're at our friend Dr.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1300.7s	1300.7	 Stephanie's snowball stand. They sell snowballs here but they have cookie dough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1304.9s	1304.9	 in the middle. Quiet. Very good. It looked like she was about to bark. I wanted to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1309.6s	1309.6	 get her attention on me. It's great when people are willing to stop and interact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1313.1s	1313.1	 with inertia. This helps her become more acquainted with humanity. Thank you for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1317.1s	1317.1	 saying hi to her. She got a little excited there but I don't think she barked.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1319.6s	1319.6	 Oh boy she sees kids over here and she seems excited. You want to pet the dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1323.9s	1323.9	 Okay. Here we go. Okay you can pet her. I'll keep her right here. She's excited. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1333.3s	1333.3	 know. You can pet her. Pet her. I'll hold her. There you go. Good job. Very good. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1341.9s	1341.9	 Nice job guys. Yes she is vlogging. We're making a video on training dogs. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1350.4s	1350.4	 Very good. Thank you for helping me guys. I appreciate that. Bye. I think she had a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1355.8s	1355.8	 little bit of pee. Her excitement urination is still a bit of an issue. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1359.3s	1359.3	 was starting to go away but it seems to be returning. Usually dogs maturing will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1363.8s	1363.8	 take care of that. Also frequent exposure to people where they don't become such
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1368.2s	1368.2	 an exciting event where they're just normal is also required. Working on some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1372.3s	1372.3	 of the things she knows in public. Let's see how that bow is looking. Wait. Yes. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1378.6s	1378.6	 I get excited when she'll do things like that while in public. Okay good work. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1383.3s	1383.3	 how her heel is doing. Switch hands here. Look at me. Okay. This way. Good job. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1393.4s	1393.4	 Good. Wait. Yes. Good. Okay. Come on. This way. Wait. Look at me. Okay. Let's go. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1408.0s	1408.0	 Looking pretty good. I'm really really happy with that. The great thing about a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1412.7s	1412.7	 place like this is that it's a little different. She's in a city like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1416.6s	1416.6	 atmosphere but she's getting exposure to people walking by, buildings, cars, all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1421.9s	1421.9	 sorts of different things. Taking advantage of being in a new place to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1425.2s	1425.2	 then ask your dog to do things is a great way to prove behaviors. Alright let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1429.6s	1429.6	 get a stand. How about a wave? See? Just because there's a motorcycle in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1436.2s	1436.2	 background doesn't mean I want her to tune me out right? That's why she has to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1439.7s	1439.7	 get experience around these things. Can you wave? Can you wave? Yes. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1447.3s	1447.3	 She's a little thrown off but she's being pretty cooperative. Ready? Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1451.5s	1451.5	 Inertia hugs. Wait. Hey call her Brie. Let me know when she looks at you so I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1458.6s	1458.6	 treat her. Inertia look. Yes. And so that's how you teach your dog to look at a camera. It's helpful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1466.6s	1466.6	 when you can have another person really help you like that. Okay get down. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1469.9s	1469.9	 we've been practicing that a lot because her tendency is of course to be glued to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1472.8s	1472.8	 the treat and look at the treat. Leave it alone. Randomly surprising her by throwing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1478.3s	1478.3	 meat in front of her and telling her to leave it. While in a new place combining
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1482.0s	1482.0	 all of these variables. Okay good job. She's doing really well in public for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1485.8s	1485.8	 such a young dog. Don't get me wrong though she is far from perfect. We still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1489.4s	1489.4	 have a lot of desensitizing to do to the world. People coming by. We'll see how she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1494.4s	1494.4	 does with them. Yes. Good job. Can you wait? Thank you. Wait right there. Good work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1507.0s	1507.0	 Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1514.2s	1514.2	 Giving her a reminder. She's having a hard time here though. Yes. Good girl. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1519.7s	1519.7	 Really good moment. You might notice I'm being a little repetitive with wait. I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1523.6s	1523.6	 give her a treat and then I'll just reiterate wait to her. I want you to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1527.0s	1527.0	 remember just because I give you a treat doesn't mean you're done. Because I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1529.7s	1529.7	 to be able to reward her many times during those waits to build duration
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1534.1s	1534.1	 over time. There's the bus right there. So you can see she's looking at that bus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1538.1s	1538.1	 and like whoa that's big. I can see her nose working right now. I'm not sure what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1543.1s	1543.1	 it is. Maybe it's a trash can over there. And see when your dog is caught off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1546.0s	1546.0	 guard by something like this they want to back away from it. Let them. Don't pull
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1549.1s	1549.1	 them towards it. This is very healthy how she's investigating it. But all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1552.5s	1552.5	 possible try to give them some time and let them explore whatever it is. There we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1556.7s	1556.7	 go. Look at that. Oh really good. Good job. She voluntarily went very close to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1560.7s	1560.7	 the trash can there. Fun spontaneous training session. See there was so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1564.2s	1564.2	 that happened there that I didn't plan for when I got here. They help you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1567.8s	1567.8	 prepare for the unforeseen. Especially when you have your training brain on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1572.0s	1572.0	 and that's what you're there to do and you're focused exclusively on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1575.0s	1575.0	 rather than just taking your dog out and hoping it goes well. There's a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1579.1s	1579.1	 walking by. Big test here. Oh boy. Gonna let her get a good look but wait. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1591.1s	1591.1	 Wait. It's a broken wave there. Can I get her back into a sit? Will you sit?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1598.1s	1598.1	 Little too intrigued by the dog. Not quite used to listening with something so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1603.7s	1603.7	 exciting that close. But it's interesting how she became compliant once the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1607.5s	1607.5	 got a little bit farther away. That just shows you that the closer an enticing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1612.1s	1612.1	 distraction is the more likely your dog is to be distracted by it. I mean it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1616.7s	1616.7	 seems obvious but it's something to think about when you're training. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1619.3s	1619.3	 tells me I've got to do more training in the presence of dogs at a greater
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1622.0s	1622.0	 distance before I can expect her to listen. Maybe outside the perimeter of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1626.1s	1626.1	 dog park for example. So that's probably a training session in our near future.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1630.6s	1630.6	 This is what a proper human snowball looks like and so that's nice and sweet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1635.3s	1635.3	 and they have some for dogs. I'm guessing that's chicken broth. Isn't that great?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1639.1s	1639.1	 Let's see how she likes it. Here we are in a new place. We're giving her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1642.1s	1642.1	 something to get her comfortable with being in a new place. She's noticing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1646.0s	1646.0	 people walking by and excellent. Love how she looked at them. She's focused on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1650.2s	1650.2	 this. Is she being protective? Is she gonna bite me? Yeah look at that. She's resource
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1657.1s	1657.1	 guarding. A moment ago Brianna was filming an Instagram story and as she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1662.2s	1662.2	 put her hand in like this and Ursa went to kind of say hey maybe keep it away or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1666.4s	1666.4	 something. It wasn't too bad but nonetheless that's just a reminder to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1669.5s	1669.5	 maybe keep up her resource guarding training. I was pretty confident she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1672.7s	1672.7	 wasn't gonna do a serious nip but if she was the way to get your dog away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1677.3s	1677.3	 something that they're guarding is to have something like chicken distract your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1680.6s	1680.6	 dog with it then pick the item up. That works pretty much all the time because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1684.6s	1684.6	 usually whatever it is they're guarding isn't as good as like some real meat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1689.2s	1689.2	 Let's have Bri try again. I mean maybe this is specific to her. Hey excuse me no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1694.7s	1694.7	 ma'am that's enough. Alright come in slow. Yes good girl. Seems to be when Brianna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1700.9s	1700.9	 puts her hand closer she gets like a little touchy. Go ahead try again Brianna.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1705.0s	1705.0	 Since I consider this mild natural resource guarding I'm going to preempt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1709.6s	1709.6	 nippy behavior by acknowledging appropriate behavior. That's just a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1713.4s	1713.4	 reminder to keep up resource guarding training. This stuff is very normal for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1716.6s	1716.6	 puppies. You want to catch it early like that and just work with them through it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1720.1s	1720.1	 by doing basic desensitizing letting them know hey just because I take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1723.6s	1723.6	 something away doesn't mean you're never gonna have access to it. Never run out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1727.4s	1727.4	 your favorite dog food again. Get $10 off your first three orders at PetFlow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1731.7s	1731.7	 I'll have a link below. Stay current with us on Instagram and TikTok and subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1735.6s	1735.6	 to my channel. Get my books too. I'll have links to both of my books as well in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1739.5s	1739.5	 the description. In the next episode I'll show you how I train a dog on a long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1743.4s	1743.4	 walk. We'll do frisbee, tricks and more. We'll see you next time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-H6rJRWBiI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=309&pp=iAQB&t=1773.4s	1773.4	 you
