https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 She's throwing a bit of a fit right now. So I just kind of look ridiculous standing out here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=5.1s	5.1	 in the rain trying to get my dog to come to me. I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=11.4s	11.4	 dog, Inertia. I'm taking you along as I train her from day one. You can start from the beginning or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=17.0s	17.0	 pick up anywhere and start learning. Welcome to the dog training experience. In this episode,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=23.0s	23.0	 we'll start to teach Inertia to heal, continue working on minimizing her crying in the crate,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=28.1s	28.1	 do some leash walking and more. Indy is our older dog and we've got a special surprise for her this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=33.2s	33.2	 month. Super Chewer is a monthly subscription box from the makers of BarkBox. They've designed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=37.8s	37.8	 this specific line for dogs who play harder and demand a challenge. Every month you get a bunch of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=43.0s	43.0	 awesome super durable toys and treats designed for really tough strong chewers. You're always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=48.5s	48.5	 going to get two really tough innovative toys and every box comes with two meaty chews and two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=54.2s	54.2	 full-sized bags of treats. And if you want, you can also opt to get an extra special bonus toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=59.1s	59.1	 every month. Monthly boxes are themed based on different types of play and senses like this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 the fetch box. But they also have all kinds of other stimulating themes like sense and nose work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=68.5s	68.5	 and interactive puzzle toys and more. Bark really stands behind these products. If your dog manages
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=73.2s	73.2	 to destroy one of these, they'll replace it no questions asked. You can just see how tough this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=77.7s	77.7	 thing is. Look at this. You don't get plush soft toys. If your dog destroys those, get the Super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 Chewer box and you get two great chews. I'll give these to you later. In India, I think this has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 got to be your favorite part. These are always going to be top notch quality treats. Super Chewer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 boxes are a $45 value and plans start at $29 a month and they're available in the US and Canada.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=98.1s	98.1	 Get a free Super Chewer when you sign up for a six or 12 month plan. Wait a minute. Visit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 superchewer.com slash Zach FEM. I'll have a link below. Plus get free shipping for life in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 contiguous 48 states. Today, I have a lot of training lined up for inertia and I usually like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=116.0s	116.0	 to precede my training sessions with a light game of fetch just to kind of let her get some of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=121.2s	121.2	 playful enthusiasm out. It kind of helps her to focus. Plus it gets all of those wonderful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=125.5s	125.5	 brain chemicals working that make training so much fun. Please don't jump on the furniture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=130.7s	130.7	 Bring it to me. I swear she waits for the camera to start and then she's like, no rules. Right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=136.3s	136.3	 when she does jump on the furniture, I'm encouraging her to get off and then I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=139.9s	139.9	 focusing on moving on with the lesson. Let go, go get it. Yeah. Bring it to me. As you can see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=146.1s	146.1	 I'm still struggling to get her to bring back the toy. I'm going to switch toys though right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=150.4s	150.4	 because she's so into this other one. With some toys, she'll bring them back more reliably than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=154.6s	154.6	 others. She seems extra interested in that one. Let's see how she does with this one. Let go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=159.0s	159.0	 go get it. Come on. This way. Come on. Let's go. I'm opting to slow down the pace of this lesson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=168.7s	168.7	 and give her a chance to think it through. Thank you. Yes. Let go. Good. So there she showed the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=174.6s	174.6	 initiative to bring it to me. Can I have it? Perfect. Let go. So she really likes this toy too,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=180.5s	180.5	 but that other one just had her really intrigued in a way that almost caused her to be overly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=184.7s	184.7	 excited. She's definitely about to try to jump on that chair. So there I intercepted her because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=189.8s	189.8	 she was thinking about jumping on there it looked like. So I tried to get in the way. Come on. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=194.1s	194.1	 go. Good job. Let go. Since her fetch is getting a little more reliable here, I'm going to start to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=200.6s	200.6	 integrate some practice on her basic skills, things that she's gotten pretty reliable at,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=205.6s	205.6	 like sit, for example, using toys as currency can yield incredible results, but it takes a bit of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=212.0s	212.0	 time to teach a dog that a single toss of a toy can be earned in exchange for listening to various
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=217.6s	217.6	 requests. This is a great way to sneak in some extra practice while your dog is in this excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 frame of mind. She got on the furniture. Come on. This way. Let's go. Good job. She's pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 responsive when I encourage her happily to get off the furniture. No need to yell at her. Do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=232.0s	232.0	 your best to be ahead of your dog in order to prevent unwanted behaviors like jumping on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 furniture. Let's work on hug. Sit. Using toys as a reward is not a smooth process at first with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=242.6s	242.6	 most dogs. So be prepared to work through this new concept with them over many training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=248.7s	248.7	 See, she does it a lot more excitedly for a toy than she will for a treat, but I want her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=252.9s	252.9	 do that more calmly. Sit. Look at me. Wait. Hug. Wait. Almost. If I were to do it with treats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=262.1s	262.1	 she would go right up there all politely and calmly, but I want to be able to use toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 as a currency. So the key is encouraging calmness while playing and really trying to get that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=270.2s	270.2	 excitement converted into focus. Sit. Wait. Hugs. Wait. Wait. Okay. Good job. So little tug in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=286.2s	286.2	 short toss should let her know that honoring my request is likely to get her something she values.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=291.0s	291.0	 In this case, play. So in the way that I'm asking her to do a sit or the hug, I'm not going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=295.9s	295.9	 ask her to do a skill like that every single time I throw, you know, I'll probably go ahead and throw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=301.6s	301.6	 three in a row now because she really enjoys that. I don't want to put a major buzzkill on the game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 by turning it all into school. Let go. Interesting. Reluctant to let go there. That's a new development.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=312.8s	312.8	 We'll see if that continues. Let's try stand and wave. That's a little more challenging. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=317.8s	317.8	 Wait. Wave. Wait. Look at me. Wave. Yes. Okay. Good. Perfect. Good. Get it. Go. Now that she's had a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=333.5s	333.5	 little bit of exercise in, I'm going to switch up my currencies into our typical training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=338.2s	338.2	 Look how she's excited and jumping on me. I bet you when she discovers I've got food, she's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=342.2s	342.2	 to get all polite. She's probably going to go into her sit. See that you're so predictable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=346.2s	346.2	 When you're using food as a currency, it has a way of getting your dog to behave a little more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=350.2s	350.2	 Ideally, it's a little easier to communicate with most dogs when you're using a real high value
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=354.2s	354.2	 currency. So let's do an update on turn. Turn is valuable later on when it comes to putting your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=359.4s	359.4	 dog in various positions. The objective is basically to have her turn and pivot on those front feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=365.1s	365.1	 like this so that I can eventually put her into the heel position, which I'll update you on in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=369.5s	369.5	 second. Here. Turn. Okay. Oh, I like that. So she actually went the other way, but she just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=376.2s	376.2	 volunteered that. So I'm going to actually jackpot that because that was a beautiful looking turn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=380.0s	380.0	 Heel is where your dog gets in position right beside you, very close to your thigh. It's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=384.4s	384.4	 handy when you're in urban settings or you just want to teach your dog this skill of staying near
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=388.6s	388.6	 you for whatever reason. But keep in mind when you're teaching your dog a heel, it's only done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=391.9s	391.9	 for short periods of time. In other words, a lot of people think that's how you're supposed to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=396.0s	396.0	 your dog full time. And that's not realistic. The more realistic way to walk your dog is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=400.5s	400.5	 keep them within four to six feet of you on a loose leash. Wait. Look at me. Wait. Yes. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=411.5s	411.5	 Yes. Wait. Turn. Yes. Good. I don't really want her going into that sit, but I like that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=419.0s	419.0	 turning. So we're still early stages on this. Stand and see right here. She's a bit confused.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=423.5s	423.5	 She's like, what do you mean? I want her to basically stay standing and do this motion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=427.4s	427.4	 That's what we're going for here. Wait. Let me get her warmed up with weight. Good. Turn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=435.4s	435.4	 Still pretty good. Cause see, she's getting real close to my thighs. Still a little in front of me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=439.0s	439.0	 but I want her over here. But again, we're not going to be that picky at this point in her training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=443.1s	443.1	 Turn. Let me see if I can intercept that sit though. Turn. Yes. So I gave her an enthusiastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=450.2s	450.2	 yes just before her butt hit the ground. And I'm hoping for her to be like, whoa, I better not sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=454.4s	454.4	 I did something right right there. That's the reaction I'm trying to elicit from her stand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=458.8s	458.8	 Wait. Turn. Yes. Good. Right there. She didn't sit. You see how I intercepted her, even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=463.8s	463.8	 this is sloppy, I'm rewarding the fact that she didn't sit. So you have to really reward small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=468.6s	468.6	 efforts. Wait. Look at me. Turn. Yes. Yes. Oh, that's so good. So this is new territory. Again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=475.4s	475.4	 not a good heel, but I'm trying to break this habit that she has of going into the sit. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=479.4s	479.4	 going to continue to work on this. There's obviously a lot to work out to get her into that heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=483.5s	483.5	 position, but that's not going to stop us from working on walking at heel just a few feet at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=489.4s	489.4	 time. So I want to make sure that I can get a decent heel in here before I ever expect her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=495.0s	495.0	 do it anywhere else. Cause this is the easiest training environment. She spends the most time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=499.3s	499.3	 training in here or in the house. You can have your dog heel on the right, left, both sides.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=504.2s	504.2	 It really doesn't matter. I'm starting with a left heel though. The goal here is to keep inertia on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=508.1s	508.1	 one side of me while I move. And a good heel takes many months to perfect. We're going to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=512.8s	512.8	 this off leash. There's no need to use a leash when teaching heel because the leash isn't how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=517.0s	517.0	 you communicate with your dog. Look at me. Getting eye contact is essential for heel. Your dog really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=522.9s	522.9	 needs to check in with you extremely often. If not completely stare at you. Okay, let's go. Yes. See
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=529.9s	529.9	 that half a step and look at that. She's already out of heel, but I just got her to stay near me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=535.6s	535.6	 Okay, let's go. Yes. Wait. Yes. Yes. I love that she's holding a stand position and not going into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=542.9s	542.9	 a sit right now. Okay. Look at me. Yes. Good. I'm gonna turn. I'm just going to actually kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=548.6s	548.6	 lure her to keep her close. Yep. Okay. Let's go. Ah, starting to get too, too far ahead there. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=555.2s	555.2	 I'm going to actually bring it back. It's really important that your dog stayed just to your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=559.5s	559.5	 for a heel. Yes. Very good. Wait. Look at me. Okay. Yes. Okay. Yes. Oh, no, nevermind. She got too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=572.6s	572.6	 angled. I want to break that habit from the beginning. Let's go. Sit. Yes. I suspected she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=578.6s	578.6	 was about to walk ahead. So I wanted to catch her succeeding. Look at me. Okay. Let's go. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=583.8s	583.8	 Yes. Look at me. Okay. Yes. That was a wonderful example of where we are on heel. Small steps,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=594.1s	594.1	 literally speaking. But heel is a great exercise to not only teach your dog how to walk nicely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=599.3s	599.3	 in small spurts. It's a great exercise in building overall communication, which is why I love teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=604.8s	604.8	 it. Play dead. You're amazing. Come alive. Good job. Wait. Okay. Put your foot over there. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=615.8s	615.8	 know how to do this. Thank you. So hug is looking really good. And this is a handy skill. Putting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=620.1s	620.1	 your paws up on something. Good job. For example, we've been working on this variation. Yes. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=627.2s	627.2	 Wait. Look at me. Yes. Because I'm trying to get her eyes off of the treat. Like if I hold it right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=635.5s	635.5	 there, she's like really staring at it. Look at me. Yes. Very nice. I want to eventually be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=641.0s	641.0	 have her look in various directions. That's the thing. You sometimes don't realize when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=645.2s	645.2	 teaching something that it can turn into something else and they start generalizing these skills.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=650.5s	650.5	 Check this out. On the other leg. No training at all. I mean, it gets to a point where your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=655.2s	655.2	 just like, oh, okay, I know how to do that. And that's what we're working on. So really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=658.4s	658.4	 communication here. Look at me. It might not look like much to have her do it on a different leg,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=663.4s	663.4	 but that's a significant variable change. And let's see how back stall is going. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=671.5s	671.5	 Stall. Good. Okay. Good job. So encouraging her not to jump to get down safely. I'm also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=681.5s	681.5	 staying very low to the ground. Another great communication building exercise. After training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=686.2s	686.2	 I put inertia up for a nap, but she's not too enthused about it. She's throwing a bit of a fit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=692.6s	692.6	 right now. This is something we've been working through. She obviously wants to be out here and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=696.5s	696.5	 I want her to be out here. So I'm doing this little game where when she's quiet, I get real close.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=702.4s	702.4	 Quiet. So I'm teaching her that if she wants out, there's a protocol to be let out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=706.2s	706.2	 It makes me go farther away. Farther away. Yes, I'm going to stop. She got quiet for a moment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=716.3s	716.3	 See that? She's trying. She's really trying. And this is clearly just frustration on her part. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=722.2s	722.2	 if I hadn't exercised her, if I hadn't been working with her earlier today, then this would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=726.8s	726.8	 be much more understandable, but she's had quite a bit of time with me today. You know, now's a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=730.9s	730.9	 time to remind you that I cover all basic training in my books, including dealing with behaviors like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=735.7s	735.7	 crying and whining. Yes. The reward, by the way, if you're wondering, is being let out. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=745.0s	745.0	 to be using the environment as the currency. That's what she wants. By the way, if this was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=748.9s	748.9	 the first exercise I'd been doing, this would be asking way too much, but this is at the point
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=753.0s	753.0	 where she is, I think. I'm going to be looking for the automatic weight. I'm not going to tell her to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=758.6s	758.6	 This should be no problem. She's nailing this one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=764.4s	764.4	 Okay. Looks like I pushed her a little too far there. Let me put her back into the crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=768.2s	768.2	 and see if we can try again. Good. Yes. Very good. So we're going to try that again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=775.2s	775.2	 Not going to make her suffer here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=781.1s	781.1	 Okay. Sometimes some tough love like that is necessary. It breaks my heart to see her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=787.9s	787.9	 have any anxiety at all, but she also needs to learn that sometimes she has to be alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=792.4s	792.4	 I want her to be well-mannered as much of the time as possible, but while balancing that with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=797.0s	797.0	 the fact that she's only 15 weeks old, you can see the leash biting. Still an issue. This has been an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=802.3s	802.3	 ongoing issue since she was eight weeks. So this is literally an issue we've been working on for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=807.0s	807.0	 seven straight weeks. This is how powerful mother nature is because she's teething. Inertia, come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=812.3s	812.3	 here. Leave it alone. Yes. Stand. Wait. Yes. All right. She's all warmed up. Let's get on with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=819.7s	819.7	 leash training. The reason we're doing walking in the house is just to really teach her how to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=825.4s	825.4	 close to me in an environment that's different than the last one that I practiced in, but still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=830.2s	830.2	 relatively easy. Now I'm going to put the leash on her just so she's comfortable with the leash on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=835.3s	835.3	 but I don't intend to use the leash at all during this training session. Even though it's a leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=839.5s	839.5	 walking training session, that might seem counterintuitive, right? But it's a variable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=843.2s	843.2	 I want her to know that this thing attaches to her. Sometimes there's tension on it when she pulls
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=847.8s	847.8	 ahead. If nothing else, just to know, hey, there's something that has weight that's going to be around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=852.0s	852.0	 you, and it's a good opportunity to practice leash biting as well. So we're going to walk back and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=856.1s	856.1	 forth right here and see how she does. Are you ready? Let's go. This way. Come here. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=863.5s	863.5	 Perfect. All right. Let's go up here. Look at me. And you can see that look at me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=870.7s	870.7	 how important it is because your dog's attention starts to wane
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=877.1s	877.1	 right here at the jumping, the leash biting. Let's go. I'm just going to put her into a sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=882.2s	882.2	 I'm going to randomly reward on that because that sits extremely reliable. If she thinks there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=887.4s	887.4	 even a chance of her getting a treat, she's going to hit that sit very close to 100% of the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=892.8s	892.8	 Okay. Look at me. Sit. Yes. Good. This way. Look at me, please.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=906.2s	906.2	 Yes. I was patient there. I said, look at me, please. Waited. And then I figured she would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=912.1s	912.1	 remember. I hope you're getting a sense as to a realistic time scale to get some of these basic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=917.4s	917.4	 things taught. And I would consider this pretty rapid for her. So if it takes longer than this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=922.2s	922.2	 that would also be completely normal. She started to walk ahead there and pull. And I just kept the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=931.5s	931.5	 leash anchored to my hip so that she couldn't advance and then pull back. But this is part of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=937.4s	937.4	 managing her and keeping her close. You need cumulative hours of this type of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=942.2s	942.2	 indoors before you can expect to have this even remotely reliable in an outdoor environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=947.5s	947.5	 That's probably like five minute sessions here and there dedicated to leash walking in your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=951.6s	951.6	 house or in a familiar area for your dog. When you throw them in the deep end without preparing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=956.2s	956.2	 them, you're likely to get all sorts of reactions from your dog. Anything from over-excitement to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=961.0s	961.0	 nervousness, phasing in distracting environments is extremely important. Not bad. I think it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=966.7s	966.7	 time to go into the real world and train. We're not going to let bad weather stop us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=971.4s	971.4	 I'm at a brand new place. This is actually a pretty classic place in New Orleans. This is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=976.2s	976.2	 Parastyle in City Park. And we were just coming out here to the park to do some socializing and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=982.1s	982.1	 it started raining. So we found shelter here. This is as good a place as any to do some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=986.8s	986.8	 socializing for Inertia. It looks like another passerby is also seeking shelter from the rain.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=991.4s	991.4	 So it'll be a little challenging to keep Inertia's attention. Inertia, come. Good. Notice,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=997.4s	997.4	 heavy reward on come when called. I'm in a brand new place. I'm going to do my best to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1002.3s	1002.3	 that she really enjoys coming to me. It's a fine line. I really want her to smell and explore this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1007.4s	1007.4	 environment, but I don't want her licking the ground or picking things up. I'll have to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1012.0s	1012.0	 manage her here. She's feeling a little anxious. I'm going to let her go out. The rain's letting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1015.7s	1015.7	 up a little bit. There's no reason she can't get a little wet. In fact, it's probably good for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1019.3s	1019.3	 if she does. Sometimes your dog will have to encounter rain in the real world. Best to expose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1024.2s	1024.2	 it to them in a situation like this where you have good control. So I can easily take shelter if the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1029.3s	1029.3	 rain becomes too much or if she becomes nervous. Inertia, come. Leave it alone. Okay. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1039.6s	1039.6	 unresponsive right now. So I just kind of look ridiculous standing out here in the rain trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1045.0s	1045.0	 to get my dog to come to me. Come on, let's go. Yes. There we go. Got it. Got it. Good job. Here you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1053.4s	1053.4	 go. I'm going to give her a big reward for that. I just stuck with her. My next step, if she didn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1057.8s	1057.8	 listen, I was just going to pick her up and bring her over here. But fortunately, I didn't have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1061.6s	1061.6	 do that. She hasn't explored this corner at all yet. You can see she's really interested in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1067.0s	1067.0	 everything and we're going to give her a lot of leeway and a lot of tolerance because we're taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1071.9s	1071.9	 into account that she's 15 weeks old. Exposure to things like this is really important before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1077.3s	1077.3	 you expect them to just listen to you all the time everywhere. We have the faint distant sound of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1083.1s	1083.1	 thunder. We have birds in the background and light rain. She's not reacting in a way that makes me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1088.1s	1088.1	 think she's nervous or scared by the thunder as many dogs often are. Come on. Yes. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1094.7s	1094.7	 Do you want some chicken? Can't hurt to give her some chicken every time the thunder and lightning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1100.6s	1100.6	 occur. That way we condition her. I don't want to let her get too close to the water's edge there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1105.9s	1105.9	 I'm going to pick her up and bring her over here because in a situation like that, if she starts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1109.8s	1109.8	 really getting resistant, I've got to take her safety into account. Let's go. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1118.7s	1118.7	 Gonna let her get ahead. This isn't really disciplined leash walking here. This is one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1123.4s	1123.4	 our first times being able to take her fully in public due to her vaccination status now being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1128.4s	1128.4	 up to date. She has the green light from her vet. inertia this way. Oh, good. Now she's really more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1134.6s	1134.6	 responsive. inertia back this way. Come on. Bye. Good work. Okay. Now let's go this way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1145.2s	1145.2	 That's really good. That's responsive. And in this case, the environment, the action continuing seems
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1150.6s	1150.6	 to be enough incentive for her where rewarding with treats is less necessary. So I'm using her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1154.9s	1154.9	 surroundings as her currency in this instance. What I hope to demonstrate on this final pass here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1161.2s	1161.2	 is that she is hopefully more responsive than she was the first time because this area has become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1166.1s	1166.1	 more familiar to her. So if it's more familiar, she's like, oh yeah, I've been here before.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1171.4s	1171.4	 Let's go. Come on. She's got to leave it alone. There's some food on the ground. It's a bone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1177.0s	1177.0	 It's an animal bone right there. See, I didn't even plant that. That's real.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1183.7s	1183.7	 Leave it alone. You cannot have that. Okay, come here. Leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1187.6s	1187.6	 Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1190.2s	1190.2	 inertia this way. Sit. Thank you. There we go. So we got her into a sit. It was a little tough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1196.1s	1196.1	 to get her attention to be honest with you right there. Okay, we're gonna go this way. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1201.5s	1201.5	 Come on. Bye. It's been really working to say bye. She's like, oh, no, don't leave. Oh, we've just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1210.8s	1210.8	 had a crowd of people appear behind us. I don't want her just trying to pull towards those people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1215.3s	1215.3	 Wait, look at me. Hey, inertia. Sit. Look at me. Yes. You want that? Okay, overstimulating situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1227.0s	1227.0	 It's like, I want to know more about those people over there. But she can't think that we're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1230.2s	1230.2	 gonna go to everyone just because they're there. Look at me. Yes. I'm practicing. Look at me because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1236.5s	1236.5	 this is a really good opportunity to encourage her to look up at me with distractions, mild
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1242.2s	1242.2	 distractions in the distance. Good. I'm going to now turn around to make it a little bit easier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1246.8s	1246.8	 I'm going to go that way. Look at me. Up here. Oh, can you get her attention on me? So interesting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1254.2s	1254.2	 Come on this way. Let's go. Come on. Yes. Good girl. So I just encourage her to follow me there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1261.2s	1261.2	 Good job. All right, now I'm going to stop here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1264.2s	1264.2	 Sit. Will you give me a sit? The ground sense are overpowering. I'm really probably pushing her too much here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1273.8s	1273.8	 I'm just going to let her go this way right now because she's a little overwhelmed and I don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1278.1s	1278.1	 her to be frustrated. So I'm going to give her a break. It's that balance you have to strike. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1281.5s	1281.5	 read your dog. You'd be amazed what a five-minute break can do. After an exciting outing like that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1285.9s	1285.9	 this is a good time to let her play with Indy. She'll be a little bit slower right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1291.1s	1291.1	 Indy's got some pep in her step. Inertia and Indiana have been playing pretty frequently like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1298.0s	1298.0	 Indy does a pretty good job of letting Inertia know when she's had it and she still has really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1302.7s	1302.7	 measured reasonable responses. Go pick up your free extra super chewer box when you sign up for a six
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1308.6s	1308.6	 or 12 month subscription. I'll have a link below. Get to know us more and keep up in real time on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1313.4s	1313.4	 Instagram and TikTok. Subscribe and click the bell notification to be notified every time we upload
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1318.6s	1318.6	 a video and get one or both of my books too. I'll have all of the links below. In the next episode,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1324.2s	1324.2	 we'll try to get Inertia's counter-serping under control, do more training in public. We'll do a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1328.7s	1328.7	 playdate with Lola Vasylki. We'll leave Inertia alone while we go grocery shopping and see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD3H3pnRkQo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=316&pp=iAQB&t=1333.8s	1333.8	 she does and more.
