https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=5.1s	5.1	 I'm taking you along as I train her from day one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 You can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning welcome to the dog training experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 At this point in the series so many of you have asked me to detail my daily routine when training inertia in today's episode
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=20.5s	20.5	 I'm gonna cover what an average day of training looks like with a three-month-old puppy like inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=25.6s	25.6	 Obviously there are many of you watching who have lots of different types of dogs with different needs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=30.0s	30.0	 So periodically I like to discuss super premium dog foods with you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=33.8s	33.8	 Solid Gold is a brand of food that's been around for over 40 years and people who use solid gold with their dogs swear by it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=40.1s	40.1	 Choosing a food that's perfect for your dog is pretty tough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=42.6s	42.6	 But one good place to start is to make sure that your dog food has really good ingredients
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=47.2s	47.2	 And immediately when I look at these top ingredients you have lamb lamb meal brown rice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=51.4s	51.4	 There's a lot of great quality protein and healthy grains in this food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=54.4s	54.4	 There's over 20 superfoods in this formula things like carrots pumpkin blueberries broccoli
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=58.8s	58.8	 Amino oil and more so you can tell solid gold puts a lot of thought into a food like this all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=64.1s	64.1	 Solid gold dry recipes have ocean fish meal for fatty acids and egg protein for muscle growth and metabolism
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=70.3s	70.3	 This solid gold sea meal is really innovative. It supports skin and coat digestive and immune health, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=76.1s	76.1	 I also like these meal toppers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=77.8s	77.8	 So maybe if your dog's a picky eater or you're trying to give them some extra nutrition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=81.2s	81.2	 These bone broth meal toppers are awesome nice short ingredient list and they have these in a few different flavors, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=87.0s	87.0	 Right now solid gold is gonna give you 30% off of your first order by visiting solid gold pet.com slash Zach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=93.4s	93.4	 I'll have a link in the description solid gold is available worldwide, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=97.1s	97.1	 I thought it would be a great idea to take a step back in our series right now and really just cover what a day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=103.0s	103.0	 Of training actually looks like with a three-month old dog for me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 It works out to break the day into three rounds or three sections
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=110.5s	110.5	 I'm in the habit of getting up pretty early in the morning in general
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=113.6s	113.6	 But when you have a puppy that can be extra important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=116.3s	116.3	 So I get up typically around 5 a.m
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 or so to let inertia out to do her business and just kind of wake up and when she does have those successes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=123.7s	123.7	 Outside and does her business and goes pee and poop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=126.5s	126.5	 I'm really in the habit of praising her and letting her know I appreciate that following it up with some playtime
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=131.6s	131.6	 Maybe a food reward potty training is still far from over. My mindset isn't even like is she getting close to being potty trained?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=138.8s	138.8	 I'm still like, okay, she's nowhere near being potty trained now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=142.4s	142.4	 Fortunately the good thing about having an attitude like this is that she has not been in a position to have many accidents at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=149.1s	149.1	 Lately, I've been really good about controlling her environment making sure she's got her little puppy bedroom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=154.2s	154.2	 Which is the crate and exercise pen combo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=156.5s	156.5	 She's been really great about not having accidents in her little bedroom area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=160.9s	160.9	 My preference would be to take her on a short walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=163.1s	163.1	 But she's too young to go on walks in neighborhoods or the park behind our house because a fair amount of dogs frequent those areas
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 And she has to get her final round of vaccinations before we can do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=172.7s	172.7	 So in place of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=173.9s	173.9	 I've been letting her do a lot of free play in the yard and just letting her explore the world and if it turns out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=178.1s	178.1	 That she's like in this extra playful mood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=180.1s	180.1	 I'll encourage her to play with me and we'll do some basic fetch or some type of training like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=184.6s	184.6	 Or maybe I'll try and get her to chase me just to really try and move her towards this fluid game of fetch that I'm hoping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 To train over the next few months with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=191.8s	191.8	 So it's usually only about an hour or so that I let her kind of play around get some of that energy out and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=196.9s	196.9	 I'll put her in her puppy bedroom and give her some breakfast and then she usually passes out for like hours
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=202.3s	202.3	 So I really take advantage of this still morning time to let her sleep so I can get my work done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=207.9s	207.9	 Because I do have a job outside of training her contrary to what many people might think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=212.2s	212.2	 I know a lot of people with full-time jobs where you have to leave your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=215.1s	215.1	 Who have a new puppy can get really stressed out and overwhelmed because they think they need to do so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=220.2s	220.2	 But you know if you'll just get up approximately one hour earlier, which I understand may be inconvenient
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=225.8s	225.8	 But if you got a puppy you got to do what you got to do, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=228.1s	228.1	 But if you'll spend that hour with them just doing some play and general training with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=233.0s	233.0	 Whatever you're working on you should find that most puppies especially that young will sleep for many hours
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=238.8s	238.8	 So you can go off to work knowing that they're probably content until about lunchtime
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 So when she wakes up a few hours later around midday say 12 o'clock or so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=247.1s	247.1	 That's when I'll do some more formal training with her either
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=250.5s	250.5	 Focusing on things that she's already learned and trying to get those to look a little bit better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=254.7s	254.7	 I also take advantage of this time to introduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=257.6s	257.6	 Introductory training exercises to new things that I intend to teach her later
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=261.0s	261.0	 Maybe a trick like play dead or roll over, you know something like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=264.4s	264.4	 Usually inertia is attention span is around 15 minutes or so if she's really in the mood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=269.1s	269.1	 I might give her a 10-minute break after that 15 minute session and see if I can get another one out of her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=273.4s	273.4	 But that really depends on how she's feeling on that particular day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=276.4s	276.4	 I'll also be sure to give her some general outdoor exposure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=279.7s	279.7	 Because you'll remember that getting your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=281.7s	281.7	 Used to paying attention to you while outside is one of the most challenging parts of getting a dog to listen to you by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=288.2s	288.2	 desensitizing her and just getting her used to being in the world without being asked to do anything and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=293.7s	293.7	 Allowing her to smell around and just take everything in is a huge part of training and it's pretty low maintenance on my part
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=300.2s	300.2	 She does her thing. I do mine. Everyone's happy if she does indicate that she's kind of interested in paying attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 I might do some very light training on stuff that she understands very well at this point like sit and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=310.8s	310.8	 Lie down with a lure for example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=312.9s	312.9	 But if she just wants to completely tune me out and ignore me and just sniff the ground that's okay, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=318.7s	318.7	 Right now so for those of you with a traditional full-time job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=321.5s	321.5	 It would be ideal to come home during lunch and spend anywhere between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=325.6s	325.6	 30 minutes to an hour with your dog if possible if you're unable to do that though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=329.6s	329.6	 Maybe you have a family member that can help out and also doggy daycare can be a wonderful option for many of you as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=334.9s	334.9	 So once I'm done doing that, I'll probably bring her inside. Let her just have some casual time in the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=340.1s	340.1	 She's been really enjoying playing with our older senior dog Indy a lot and Indy's been enjoying her a lot, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=345.3s	345.3	 So they've been having a lot of bonding going on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=347.5s	347.5	 So I'll usually let them play for a little bit and then I'll put inertia back up and encourage her to settle down and she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=352.8s	352.8	 Usually yet again goes to sleep almost immediately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=355.8s	355.8	 It is incredible how much young puppies sleep once inertia finally wakes up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=359.9s	359.9	 It's time for her final round of the day with inertia being as young as she is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=363.4s	363.4	 We've been taking her to a different place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=366.0s	366.0	 Virtually every day just to really show her that there's lots of things to see out there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=370.9s	370.9	 Now, of course the catch is as I mentioned earlier, she hasn't had her final round of vaccinations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=375.0s	375.0	 So those places typically tend to be dog friendly bars and restaurants where a ton of dogs don't really go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=380.7s	380.7	 I found a couple of sports fields that are pretty well kept
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=384.3s	384.3	 So we've kind of snuck into those to try and give her some time to run around and play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=388.5s	388.5	 It's also been great taking her to a lot of our friends houses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=391.2s	391.2	 Some of them have dogs and as long as those dogs are vaccinated as our friends dogs are then it's cool with her to meet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=397.0s	397.0	 With those dogs and interact with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=398.4s	398.4	 So at this point, you know, we'll return home and I might do one more 10 to 15 minute training session with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=404.0s	404.0	 That's dependent on again how she's feeling and if she's tired or I might let her play with Indy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=408.7s	408.7	 It's just kind of this flexible time that I have for her that I utilize in a way that makes the most sense for that given day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=415.3s	415.3	 After she's done with all of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=417.0s	417.0	 I'll feed her let her digest her food for an hour or so take her out to do her business and then I'll put her up for the night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=422.9s	422.9	 Now I'm careful to make sure that she has lots of good chew toys that are safe for her water to drink things like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=427.9s	427.9	 And inertia has been so fantastic about just passing out and sleeping to the next morning where we'll do it all over again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=434.2s	434.2	 Now as she gets older, she's not gonna sleep quite so much. So there's going to be additional challenges moving forward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=439.9s	439.9	 There are some additional things that I'd like to bring up too that you can do throughout the day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=443.4s	443.4	 For example, I'm very careful to make sure that when she is awake
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=446.9s	446.9	 Maybe she hasn't passed out as quickly as she normally does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=449.7s	449.7	 I'm careful to make sure that she goes out and has potty breaks every hour that she is conscious
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=454.4s	454.4	 I'll also focus on reinforcing general training throughout the day, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=458.4s	458.4	 For example, I might do a very casual come when called training session when in a new public place when we're doing our socialization sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=465.7s	465.7	 Or when she's playing with Indy, I might work on settle training between rounds of play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=470.5s	470.5	 So there are plenty of opportunities throughout the day to implement spontaneous training sessions that just last a few seconds or so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=477.1s	477.1	 Maybe you're trying to practice a real life leave it and you throw a sock in front of your dog and have them leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=481.7s	481.7	 So there's a lot of that type of thing that goes on during the training process right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=485.5s	485.5	 And remember for those of you looking for a new high quality premium food, check out Solid Gold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=489.9s	489.9	 I'll have a link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=491.3s	491.3	 And in order to make it extra easy to try, Solid Gold is going to give you 30% off of your first order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=496.8s	496.8	 Just go to solidgoldpet.com slash Zach. I'll have that link below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=500.7s	500.7	 I want to extend a sincere thank you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=502.9s	502.9	 This series with Inertia has exceeded all of our expectations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=506.7s	506.7	 And you've made us very happy with all of your warm comments and engagement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=510.9s	510.9	 You're going to love the next episode watching Inertia learn the things that she's going to learn next are just fascinating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=517.0s	517.0	 See you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91-5bwc-W0s&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=323&pp=iAQB&t=526.8s	526.8	 You
