https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 inertia is still biting. I do this, she's still got that habit of running away. I'm Zach George,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 I train dogs, and this is my new dog inertia. I'm taking you along as I train her from day one,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=14.3s	14.3	 you can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning. Welcome to the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=19.4s	19.4	 training experience. In this episode, we're going to continue to work on inertia puppy biting, we'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=24.7s	24.7	 take her to the vet and continue working on lots of her fun general training. Today's video is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 sponsored by PepFlo. Sign up for automatic pet food delivery and get $10 off your first three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=34.6s	34.6	 automatic shipments. Just choose your food, PepFlo has all of the brands and tell them how often you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 want it delivered. I'll have a link and discount code in the description below. I'm here at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=44.4s	44.4	 vet to get inertia her next round of vaccines. I'm curious to see how she responds. If she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=49.0s	49.0	 well, like she has so far, she's a little more energetic today, so she might be a little less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=53.8s	53.8	 cooperative. So I'll do my best to mitigate that and teach her how to behave nicely while getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=58.8s	58.8	 her shots. If you have a puppy and since they need to go to the vet multiple times over several
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=63.3s	63.3	 weeks, it's a really good opportunity to start getting them comfortable with the vet, giving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=67.0s	67.0	 them treats when they do the right thing. I'd even like to do some training with inertia here. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=71.3s	71.3	 she's receptive in this new environment, you can see she's highly distractable right now being in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=75.5s	75.5	 a new place. Let me see if I can get her to come to me. That would be good. I'm not trying to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=79.0s	79.0	 things too hard for her. See if she's not interested in this chicken right now. Look at that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=83.6s	83.6	 Nope, not interested. So it's on me to really try and get her interested in coming to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=91.0s	91.0	 If your dog isn't responsive to one type of reward, try other things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=102.7s	102.7	 Come on. Yes. So in this case, it looks like inertia is more responsive to a playful person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=108.6s	108.6	 than a treat. Hey, inertia, what's this? Come on. Yes. Good job. So just getting her to come at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 few feet away in this small controlled environment. Anytime you're in a new place like this, if you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=120.6s	120.6	 get them listening to you in new places, that really is the secret to having a trained dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=124.7s	124.7	 She's feeling a little anxious now, so I'll stop. No big deal. It's been like 30 seconds. You can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=130.1s	130.1	 inertia is in a calmer state of mind here. I like that. Again, you've heard me talk a lot about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 capturing calmness and acknowledging when your dog is being calm. Yes. Good job. See if she takes any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=143.3s	143.3	 treats now. There you go. It's there if you want it. So there she goes. Now she's taking treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=148.9s	148.9	 So that indicates to me that her anxiety level has subsided a bit, and I'm just fine to let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=153.9s	153.9	 her calm down for a bit if she wants to. Oh my goodness. Hi there. It's good to see you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=159.3s	159.3	 Oh, yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=168.7s	168.7	 Well, go ahead and get her to look at you, and then I'm going to click that when she's complying.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 Good. And then I'll leave you alone. That should. Okay. You're fine. Good job. Yes. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=181.5s	181.5	 Good job. Yes. Look at you calming down. Very good. For our vaccines today,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=187.7s	187.7	 we're going to do Bordicella, Distemper, Leptoparvo, Perianfluenza, and Adenovirus.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=193.0s	193.0	 And we're also going to do Flu because I know we talked about doing the flu vaccine. Yes. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=199.2s	199.2	 Oh, that's good, huh? So this is the Bordicella. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 How do you like that one? Or do you prefer the cheese off the cookie when the cookie itself?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=215.7s	215.7	 Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=216.5s	216.5	 Well done. Nice job. Anersha continues to do amazingly well at the vet. I just wish she was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=222.6s	222.6	 doing this well with her puppy biting. Let's do an update on puppy biting. As you can see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 that really hurt. As you can see, Anersha is still biting, right? I've had her three and a half weeks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=234.6s	234.6	 I'm a dog trainer and she's still biting me. Remember that dogs are teething. They're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=238.8s	238.8	 now learning how to interact with the world. Those things combined, Cid, create a biting machine.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=245.3s	245.3	 You can see even some of that shoelace biting is still around, though we have definitely made
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=250.0s	250.0	 progress on it. That's enough. Easy. Thank you. Yes. Good job. Very good. That was actually a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=261.8s	261.8	 really significant moment because she was showing restraint as I tied my shoes in front of her,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=266.2s	266.2	 which can be a trigger for biting shoelaces if you're an 11 and a half week old dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 So the behavior is being reduced. That was an unfortunate relapse there, but that's what you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=275.3s	275.3	 deal with when you have a puppy pant leg biting. Good. Remember, acknowledge the moment your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=281.7s	281.7	 stops biting. Good job. She was offering a play dead there, which I'll take right now because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=286.8s	286.8	 it's not biting. In general, just to give you an update on what we've been doing to manage puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=291.0s	291.0	 biting, she's quite predictable as puppies often are. The first thing to remember is to get very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=296.1s	296.1	 good at redirecting and acknowledging when your dog is not biting, especially when you can tell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=301.4s	301.4	 they're exhibiting even minor restraint. In the case of biting my shoelaces, it's quite predictable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=307.4s	307.4	 For example, I know that if I get up right now, there's a good chance she's going to go for my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=311.5s	311.5	 pant leg or something down here. Let's see what happens. I mean, you can see she's already starting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=316.8s	316.8	 Just by walking, she's in one of those moods. Now those have been less and less recently. However,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=323.8s	323.8	 it's still there. This just illustrates the point that you got to have patience and it takes time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=328.2s	328.2	 Now, since I'm going to be one step ahead of her this time, knowing that when I stand up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=332.1s	332.1	 I'm going to look for a microsecond to reward. Yes. Did you see how she started to look at my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=338.3s	338.3	 pants right there? I mean, it was very subtle, but what did I do? I didn't wait for her to fail. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=343.2s	343.2	 acknowledged that she didn't yet go for my pants. I'm going to stand up. I'm going to walk this way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=349.1s	349.1	 Yes. Good. No biting that time. Okay. Come on. Yes. Good. Okay. Come on. Two, three,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=357.2s	357.2	 some jumping, but no biting. So that's okay. I'm still going to reinforce the no biting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=361.7s	361.7	 Come on. Yep. Do you see how quick I'm acknowledging? Leave it right there. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=368.6s	368.6	 Did you see that really good moment? She started to go for my shoes. She's like, wait a minute,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=372.6s	372.6	 I think I'm not supposed to do this. I really want that chicken. What do I have to do to get it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=376.6s	376.6	 And in this case, I was right there to say, whoa, you made the right decision. That's what puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=381.0s	381.0	 biting is all about. If you're a beginner and you've never trained a puppy before,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=384.8s	384.8	 getting really good at managing puppy biting requires excellent timing, which requires
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=389.8s	389.8	 experience. But if you're really committed and you're into training your dog, you'll be there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=394.2s	394.2	 But understand there is a learning curve and that's okay. It's going to make you a better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=397.5s	397.5	 trainer in the longterm. If you prioritize getting really good with your timing now. Hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=402.4s	402.4	 yes. So that is like, she has just started probably in the last 24 hours starting to lick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=408.6s	408.6	 where she would otherwise bite. That was a pretty good example. Cause right now a puppy's default
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=413.3s	413.3	 is to bite, bite, bite. And the next phase is how to teach them to lick, lick, lick and in place of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=419.3s	419.3	 where they used to bite. Of course, then if the licking becomes excessive, we'll cross that bridge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=423.1s	423.1	 when we get to it, but this is a priority to get this biting under control. The reason I'm excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=427.8s	427.8	 about the licking is because that's what biting evolves into. If you're doing your job right,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=432.1s	432.1	 that's a good way to measure progress. See, look biting, ouch, that one's a little hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=438.2s	438.2	 Yes. Good. I'll take the licks you. So I will. For those of you out there with puppies and they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=442.6s	442.6	 going through this hardcore biting phase right now, understand it is unrealistic to resolve this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=447.6s	447.6	 issue overnight. It's going to take some time, but by being consistent, you'll get through it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=452.1s	452.1	 You'll understand by training your dog, you'll need good currencies. Now in inertia's case,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=456.4s	456.4	 she loves food as currency, as you've been seeing today, and she also loves to play. But the time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=461.0s	461.0	 has come to really start to get her to understand that we can use play as a currency. In other words,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=467.8s	467.8	 I can teach her to work for play, do things that I ask in exchange for an awesome play session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=474.5s	474.5	 Sit. Yeah, good job. Just like that. See, so she sat and she got to chase the ball. I have dabbled
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=481.5s	481.5	 with this, but the time is coming now that we're starting to get a little bit of traction on our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=486.2s	486.2	 communication for her to really understand this concept of working for a toss of a ball or a tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=491.7s	491.7	 of a tug toy for a few seconds. We're not talking about a full on round of five minute fetch for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=496.9s	496.9	 doing a sit. We're just talking about a brief toss of the ball like that. Over here. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=501.6s	501.6	 Come here. Over here and sit. Get it. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=511.1s	511.1	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=514.3s	514.3	 Let go. Yes. Sit. And okay. Get it. Perfect.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=524.8s	524.8	 Good girl. So sit's one thing, but I don't want her to just learn how to sit for a toy. Sit. Down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=532.1s	532.1	 Withholding the reward. She didn't do what I asked there, so I'm withholding it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=536.6s	536.6	 Lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=537.1s	537.1	 Okay. Get it. Good job. Nice work, girl. What do you do here? Right? She's lost interest in the toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=545.7s	545.7	 and she's like, I want to play with my leash instead. And I have her on leash because I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=548.9s	548.9	 to keep her in my immediate area here for the lesson. Her let go has been doing really well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=553.1s	553.1	 Let me see if we can do a generalized let go. In other words, outside of a fetch session,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=558.2s	558.2	 because right now she's just saying, I want to play tug with this leash instead. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=567.1s	567.1	 Let go. Yes. Good. I mean, really good organic example right there. She let go of the leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=577.6s	577.6	 And how did I reward? I rewarded with the toy. Now she's going back into the leash. This time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=582.1s	582.1	 I need to get her to let go of the leash, reward with the ball, and anticipate that she's likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=586.9s	586.9	 to go back for the leash. Let go. Yes. Get it. Perfect. Good. Now this time, when she, when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=596.2s	596.2	 get the ball, I'm going to keep her interest on this and try and rapidly get her back into a sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=602.0s	602.0	 See, she got the leash anyway, even though I was anticipating she would do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=605.7s	605.7	 She's still got it. It happens. Let go. Yes. Get it. Perfect. Okay. So we're making some traction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=613.0s	613.0	 here. She's sitting, lying down, doing various behaviors for the promise of a toy, even letting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=618.9s	618.9	 go of the leash. So we're on the right track, but you might've noticed too, as she gets the toy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=622.7s	622.7	 she's not really bringing it directly back. She's kind of running around with it. So she's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=626.7s	626.7	 she'll go after the ball, but look, if I do this, she's still got that habit of running away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=631.4s	631.4	 I've been very tolerant of this bad habit for the last three weeks because it's much more important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=636.4s	636.4	 to me that she's interested in that toy than it is that she bring it back perfectly. But we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=641.2s	641.2	 going to work on teaching her how to bring back that toy more reliably because the honeymoon phase
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=645.8s	645.8	 is over when it comes to not bringing back the toy. Fetch is going to be in a central part of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=649.7s	649.7	 training with this style of dog. One of the reasons that fetch is so important is when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=653.6s	653.6	 have an energetic dog who's biting like this and really frantic, they need that exercise. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=658.3s	658.3	 one of many reasons it's so important to really get a polished game of fetch going. Fetch is where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=663.1s	663.1	 your dog chases that toy in a straight line, immediately picks it up, returns in a straight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=667.7s	667.7	 line, promptly lets go and eagerly awaits the next throw. One of my favorite ways to teach a dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=672.6s	672.6	 retrieve a toy is to run from them. Good, come here. See how she does that? That's the habit I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=682.3s	682.3	 trying to break. But I have a bit of a problem here because in this studio, I kind of run out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=686.8s	686.8	 room to get her to chase me. She's like, oh, once you're only that far away, I no longer want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=691.2s	691.2	 keep chasing you. So the farther away I am, the more likely she is to chase me. So I've got an idea.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=697.8s	697.8	 I've got a door over here and that will allow me to extend my training area a bit. Go get it. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=706.3s	706.3	 Clapping my hands, getting excited, going farther. And that got the ball a little bit closer to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=711.7s	711.7	 Good. Go get it. Good. Come on. See right here, that extra effort is what I'm looking for.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=720.6s	720.6	 I'm trying to get her to drop it on this part of the floor. Come on. Come on. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=728.4s	728.4	 Her impulse is to run away with the ball. That's true with almost all dogs as a learning fetch.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=736.0s	736.0	 Yes. Good. Right there. There was a drop. So I immediately rewarded her with the toy. In other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=741.5s	741.5	 words, the thrill of the chase is reinforcing enough to her. Get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=750.1s	750.1	 Come on. Yes. Come on. Nope.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=757.8s	757.8	 Good. All right. So here she's let go of the ball. This is a good moment. Yes. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=767.3s	767.3	 Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=772.4s	772.4	 Come on. Yes. Right there. Good. Get it. So I'm trying to find that moment where she like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=778.5s	778.5	 gives up on the game of keep away and is like, okay, I'll drop it. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=783.2s	783.2	 Good. Again, slow. See that? See how slow I'm going? Get it. Good girl. Let me see now if I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=794.9s	794.9	 can start to not have to open the door and run halfway around the block to get her to return it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=799.4s	799.4	 to me. Come on. Yes. Good. And so I'm going to have to work on this for weeks, guys. This is not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=811.6s	811.6	 something that happens quickly. This is just the very beginning phase of her learning how to bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=816.2s	816.2	 that toy back to me. That's a lot of work too, but so worth it moving forward. On a side note,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=821.7s	821.7	 you can see an immediate difference in her behavior. She's a lot more chill, still a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=825.5s	825.5	 bitey, but not quite not anywhere near as frantic and energetic as she was a moment ago. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=830.3s	830.3	 to give you an update on where her stand is right now. We worked on this not too long ago and our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=835.5s	835.5	 first training session on this was nowhere near the finished product. I feel like she's getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=839.7s	839.7	 close to grasping this concept of standing on all fours. This is valuable for vet visits or when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=845.9s	845.9	 you're grooming your dog or giving them a bath or whatever. And it's also a great way to just improve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=850.1s	850.1	 your communication. Sit. Yes. So I'm getting her into a sit. Now I'm going to lure her back into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=859.8s	859.8	 stand. Yes. Good. I'm releasing more and more treats. Yes. Okay. Good job. She did take a couple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=869.2s	869.2	 of steps there, but she's trying. So I'm not going to be too stingy on my rewards right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=874.2s	874.2	 And so the idea is to just get her standing for a second. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Good. Do you see how I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=885.8s	885.8	 time me? I was like, yes, I like that you stayed for a quarter second there and another quarter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=890.0s	890.0	 second and then another quarter second. And then I released her from the stand before she failed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=894.5s	894.5	 and took a step and move those feet. So I caught her succeeding. That is the whole theme of teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=899.5s	899.5	 your dog. Clearly I don't want to have to constantly reward for something like stand every quarter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=904.3s	904.3	 second moving forward. So let's see if I can make a bit of progress on that. Maybe get her to stand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=908.3s	908.3	 for a longer period of time between reinforcements. When I'm rapidly acknowledging it and rewarding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=914.0s	914.0	 one after the other, that's called a high rate of reinforcement. I'm trying to lower that rate of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=918.7s	918.7	 reinforcement, at least during this particular training session and see if that really makes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=923.5s	923.5	 the light bulb go off for her stand. Oh, see right there. I should have released her before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=933.2s	933.2	 that foot went forward. Sit. Good. Gonna reward her on sit. And can we stand? Huh? Closing it. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=942.1s	942.1	 If this will keep her in position, then I'll keep the treats glued to her nose and I'll even let her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=946.4s	946.4	 nibble on them a little bit. If this continues going well, I'll try to get the treats farther
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=950.7s	950.7	 away from her nose and have her hold this position later. I've got to admit, this still isn't looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=955.0s	955.0	 that great as far as I'm concerned. So I've got a lot of work to do here because she keeps moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=959.0s	959.0	 those feet. She's not ready for a lower rate of reinforcement just yet. I'm going to continue to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=963.7s	963.7	 work with her for a few minutes. A couple of minutes of really focused training got her in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=967.3s	967.3	 the zone. Stand. I know this looks like a lot of treats, but remember I'm using small pieces of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=973.2s	973.2	 meat right now, about the size of a grain of rice. And this is proving to be very reinforcing to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=978.0s	978.0	 inertia. I'm pulling away. Yes. Yes. Okay. Good job. So that was pretty good there. I mean, she was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=990.3s	990.3	 preoccupied with the treats, but you noticed that those feet weren't moving at all. And that's what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=994.5s	994.5	 I'm really going for. I'm looking for her to hold those feet in one position. Stand. Good. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1002.3s	1002.3	 Good. And okay. Good job. Want to quit while you're ahead. That's the tricky part because you're kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1009.3s	1009.3	 of gambling each time. So it's really important to not drive them to break that position. Let's do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1015.1s	1015.1	 an update on get your tail. Let's see where she is with that. So far it's been easier to have her in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1019.7s	1019.7	 the lie down position. Good. Can you get your tail? Sometimes she has a hard time finding her tail.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1027.2s	1027.2	 Get your tail. Yes. She's thinking about it. Get your tail.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1037.9s	1037.9	 Almost.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1043.1s	1043.1	 Get your tail. Yes. And I'm trying to get her to bite her tail there and inertia. Get your tail.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1050.1s	1050.1	 Yeah. Good job. So get your tail is looking pretty good. You can see a past episode to see how we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1055.4s	1055.4	 taught that this is one of her longest training sessions to date. We were here about an hour and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1060.8s	1060.8	 15 minutes. Let go. Good job. Thank you. But I think she's doing a great job. You can see how much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1068.0s	1068.0	 calmer and more focused she is. So if you have rambunctious puppies, this is why mental and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1072.3s	1072.3	 physical stimulation is so important for them. We're continuing to take a nurse at a new place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1076.5s	1076.5	 for them. We're continuing to take a nurse at a new place virtually every day of this age.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1081.1s	1081.1	 I really want her comfortable with playing fetch in a variety of outdoor environments moving forward.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1085.9s	1085.9	 But because of her vaccination status, I can only take her to places where it's likely dogs don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1090.7s	1090.7	 frequent. I found an isolated baseball field and worked on fetch and she broke her personal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1095.5s	1095.5	 distance record. If you want even more detail, follow me on Instagram, get your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1100.3s	1100.3	 automatically shipped to you from PetFlow. I'll have a link below. Subscribe to my channel and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1104.1s	1104.1	 click that bell notification so you'll know every time I upload a video. If you want to know more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1108.1s	1108.1	 about this, I talk about this a lot in both of my books. I'll have links in the description as to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1112.7s	1112.7	 where you can get those. You won't believe how much we're covering in the next episode. I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1117.1s	1117.1	 take a nurse at a puppy class. She'll learn how to shake for the first time. Potty training, of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1122.5s	1122.5	 her puppy biting will need constant attention. I'll give you some advice on dealing with frustration.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1127.3s	1127.3	 We'll do a checkup on her indoor leash walking, leash biting, and her real life leave it. I can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R95tDp48NEk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=324&pp=iAQB&t=1131.9s	1131.9	 wait to see you in the next episode.
