https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I have a really exciting announcement for all of you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=2.2s	2.2	 For the last 18 months or so, I've been working on my second book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=5.2s	5.2	 Zach George's Guide to a Well-Behaved Dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 Stefan, have you already read my book?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=9.6s	9.6	 You're so well-behaved already at 10 weeks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=11.8s	11.8	 In my first book, I kind of gave you this wide-angle view of things to consider
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 when you're getting a dog, to vet care, to traveling with your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=18.5s	18.5	 and of course, some basic training advice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=20.5s	20.5	 The book has done really well. In fact, it's got a 4.6 star rating.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=23.6s	23.6	 It's the number one bestselling dog training book on Amazon at the moment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 I just got this in the mail. This is the first printed copy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=29.7s	29.7	 This is kind of how a book looks before it goes to the final printing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=34.1s	34.1	 so we can review it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=35.1s	35.1	 And my new book really focuses on some of the most common unwanted behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=38.4s	38.4	 that I know many of you struggle with, like unwanted jumping,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=41.0s	41.0	 incessant barking, destructive chewing, play biting, regardless of your dog's age,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=46.2s	46.2	 potty training issues, what to do if your dog pulls on a leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=50.0s	50.0	 begging, and other pushy behaviors, how to address things like fears and phobias,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=54.9s	54.9	 separation anxiety, hyperactivity, aggression, not listening around distractions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=60.2s	60.2	 not listening in new places, not listening while off leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=63.6s	63.6	 not listening without treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=65.2s	65.2	 I'm going to show you how and why desensitizing, management, conditioning,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=69.7s	69.7	 and or counter conditioning can get you to where you want to be with your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 The methods you'll read about in the book have not only been shown to be effective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=76.1s	76.1	 in my own career and with many of you on YouTube over the years,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=79.7s	79.7	 but I also source recommendations from other leading animal behavior professionals as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=83.6s	83.6	 In fact, past president of the American Veterinary Society of Animal Behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 Dr. Sara Basi has even said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=89.6s	89.6	 Zach George takes his dedication to humane and effective dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=93.4s	93.4	 from the screen to the written page.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=95.2s	95.2	 His techniques for managing common dog training problems are spot on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=99.2s	99.2	 You hear that step on?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=100.4s	100.4	 My dog training techniques are spot on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=102.5s	102.5	 If you want to be among the first to get my new book, you can pre-order it right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bGQRKPSOvz4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=351&pp=iAQB&t=106.1s	106.1	 I'm going to have a link in the description.
