https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by Pupford. If you've ever wished that you could take an in-person training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=4.4s	4.4	 class with me, I highly recommend that you sign up for my completely free 30-day Perfect Pup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=9.7s	9.7	 Digital Dog Training Class. You'll get access to a private Facebook community, daily emails with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 training tips and video guides, and an awesome workbook to help you follow along and keep up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=19.7s	19.7	 with your progress. Pupford actually made that course possible and now they've launched their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=23.8s	23.8	 super premium dog food. This is unlike any dog food you've ever seen before. First of all,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=28.5s	28.5	 it's dehydrated, which means it's minimally processed so it really retains those nutrients.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=32.8s	32.8	 And you can see the real chunks of food in here. Let's do a test. Let's see if he prefers his kibble
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=37.0s	37.0	 or this. If your dog doesn't love the taste of this, just send it back and they'll give you a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=40.9s	40.9	 full refund. It's made with really top-notch high-quality ingredients, but not just good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=46.0s	46.0	 ingredients. Ingredients that work together optimally for your dog, you ate all of that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=51.4s	51.4	 Like you, when dogs eat better, they feel better, and that can make all the difference when it comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=55.7s	55.7	 to training them. Pupford is a great food whether your dog is a puppy, and it's also great to help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=60.0s	60.0	 them maintain optimal nutrition as they get older too. I'm going to have a link below where you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 try out Pupford's premium dog food. Click thumbs up for Angus, make sure you're subscribed to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=67.5s	67.5	 channel, and follow us on Instagram. Post a picture of your dog, tag at Zach George, and use hashtag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=72.2s	72.2	 dog training revolution, and I'll feature some of my favorites. Very often training isn't about what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=76.4s	76.4	 you're working on specifically, but where you're working on it and what context you're working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 In my last lesson with Angus, we did some distraction training around lots of different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=86.0s	86.0	 birds. Angus is pretty good on the basics when we're at home and all of that, but I thought it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=90.8s	90.8	 would be good to test his basic behavior out here in this very exciting setting and in the presence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=96.6s	96.6	 of other dogs. There's a dog park behind me right now. There's a few dogs running around. He's kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=101.5s	101.5	 of taking note of them, and I'm just giving him a little bit of time to adjust out here, really take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 it in, get used to seeing dogs at a distance. We have this black and white dog running around over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=110.8s	110.8	 here, and you can see Angus is paying attention and doing really well. You don't need to wait for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 your dog to react unfavorably to train them. I like how he's behaving right now. When you behave like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 that in this particular setting, you get something really good. In this case, a tiny piece of real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=126.3s	126.3	 meat. Good job. Let me make it clear here. We're not going inside the dog park for this particular
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=131.4s	131.4	 training lesson. This is just a way for us to give him exposure to dogs, but in the event he does react,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=137.1s	137.1	 or if your dog at home reacts, it gives you the opportunity to create distance so that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=141.9s	141.9	 then measure where they go from being non-compliant to compliant. That's a really key factor when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=147.3s	147.3	 training a dog. Look at me. There we go. I'm going to let him go up and check it out a little more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=152.0s	152.0	 Now he's picking up all of those scents there from all of those dogs. Got some people walking by. Let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=156.8s	156.8	 me see if I can get his attention on me. Hey Angus. Yes. Good job. Right there. First attempt. But now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=162.3s	162.3	 let's see if we can do some training on come when called around some more significant distractions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=166.6s	166.6	 There's a lot more dogs down here than over there. Practicing at a dog park like this is likely to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=171.9s	171.9	 add a completely new layer of difficulty. And so I've switched to the long lead here to kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=176.7s	176.7	 simulate more freedom. But again, I still have complete control of Angus. He's showing interest.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=182.2s	182.2	 I'm actually going to let him investigate there because I think that's healthy. I'm many feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=186.1s	186.1	 away from him. He's over there checking out the dogs. Angus, come. Okay. Didn't have much luck
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=192.3s	192.3	 there. So I'm going to let him know. Hey, I've got this Angus. Come. There it is. Sometimes they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=200.2s	200.2	 just need a little reminder. Now that he's a little distracted. Do you see that? Do you see how he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=204.3s	204.3	 taking an interest in those dogs? I'm going to call him. Can I call him off of dogs in this situation?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=209.4s	209.4	 Let's find out Angus Angus. Come. Look at that. Nice job, sir. That was really good. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=221.2s	221.2	 Come on. Let's go over here and sit. Good job. So I was able to get his attention off of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=228.0s	228.0	 adorable puppy over there. If your dog is playing with other dogs, you want to be able to call them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=232.3s	232.3	 off of those other dogs, but you have to be able to do this first before you can expect your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=236.4s	236.4	 to listen to you inside of that dog park. Let's go. Very good. And will you give me a sit? And so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=243.8s	243.8	 right there we had come when called. He came to me. He looked at me. He sat. There's barking dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=249.2s	249.2	 in the background and he's doing a great job. Angus come a little hesitation there. That's okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=255.0s	255.0	 though. Good job. So I got him to come to me voluntarily without having to lure him that time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=259.9s	259.9	 That's an improvement. Good job. There's a dog there. Can I get his attention? I can stay. Look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=265.1s	265.1	 at me. Nice job. I love it. And as you can see Angus is very relaxed right now. This is a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 good moment for capturing calm behavior. When you do capture your dog behaving calmly in a situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=277.1s	277.1	 just like this with dogs just a few feet away, be sure to reinforce that and let them know, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=282.0s	282.0	 I like that you're behaving like this. See the more experience your dog has at actually listening
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=286.9s	286.9	 to you and distracting scenarios where you're really focused on them, the more likely it is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=291.4s	291.4	 they're going to pay attention to you when it really counts. This is going to vary a lot from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=295.1s	295.1	 dog to dog, but what you should eventually find is that the more you take your dog to a setting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=300.2s	300.2	 like this and just kind of let them hang out, the more that you should see normal behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=305.0s	305.0	 just like you would see at home, for example. If your dog is a lot more energetic than this or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=309.1s	309.1	 you're having issues, make sure you give your dog some vigorous exercise right before you do a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=314.1s	314.1	 training session like this. Much easier to communicate with a dog that's had some exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=318.5s	318.5	 than one who has a lot of pent up energy. Don't be discouraged if you don't have results this great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=322.6s	322.6	 You'll get there, but I think a lot of people underestimate how much time it really takes to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=327.8s	327.8	 work with your dog and give them these types of life experiences. This isn't something you can do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=332.2s	332.2	 passively. One or two days a week, at least if your schedule allows, you know, plan on going out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=336.9s	336.9	 to a park like this for three hours at a time and just letting your dog exist out there and doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=341.6s	341.6	 some really light training, like look at me or come when called or any other number of things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=346.9s	346.9	 And it's important to repeat training sessions like this over many months so that your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=350.9s	350.9	 really learns how to behave in a broad set of circumstances. I'm going to have a link to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=355.4s	355.4	 Pupbird's super premium dog food in the description of this video and a link to my totally free digital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 dog training class 30 day perfect pup. Be sure to post a picture of your dog on Instagram tag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=365.4s	365.4	 at Zach George. That's me and at hashtag dog training revolution. I'll share some of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=369.6s	369.6	 favorites. Click thumbs up for Angus. He did a great job today and make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=373.1s	373.1	 to my channel. See you guys next time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kf4B72l5vS0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=374&pp=iAQB&t=390.2s	390.2	 Bye.
