https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by Pupford. Have you guys checked out my 30-day perfect pup digital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 training course? This is a completely free high quality dog training course designed to show you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=9.1s	9.1	 everything you need to know to get your training underway. I'm so proud to be working with a company
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=13.5s	13.5	 that loves dogs as much as Pupford does. And now they've launched some of the best dog food I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=17.9s	17.9	 ever seen. I get a lot of questions about which types of foods are best for your dog. So I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=22.3s	22.3	 to let you know when I find something extra special that might be really good for your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=26.7s	26.7	 Pupford has just launched their line of dehydrated dog food. Dehydrated food is special because it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=32.1s	32.1	 a mix of high quality real food ingredients that are minimally processed to preserve their nutrients.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=37.6s	37.6	 That smells fantastic. You can actually see the real food ingredients in here too. Just add water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=42.6s	42.6	 and rehydrate it and you have a super nutritious tasty meal. Are you hungry? This nine pound bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=48.1s	48.1	 can make over 34 pounds of food. Pupford is good for all life stages. It's a fantastic food for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 when your dog is a puppy and it's great to maintain optimal nutrition as they get older too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=57.5s	57.5	 I encourage you to objectively check the food out. Look at the ingredients because I know that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=61.5s	61.5	 you look at these you're going to be pretty impressed. Chicken liver, carrots, pumpkin and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=65.3s	65.3	 on and on. In fact I just ordered some for myself because clearly Indy loves it. I'm going to provide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=69.4s	69.4	 a link where you can get your pup for food. Let me know what your dog thinks. Click thumbs up for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=72.7s	72.7	 Bitsy Bella. You can't swim in the air. You have so much personality Bitsy Bella. Make sure you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=77.4s	77.4	 subscribed to my channel and if you can't get enough dog training revolution be sure to follow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 us on Instagram and Facebook too. I'll have the links below. You might remember we met Bitsy Bella
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=86.7s	86.7	 when she was only 12 weeks old. Now she's almost five months old so I thought it might be a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=91.5s	91.5	 idea to do a check up on her and see how she's doing. The first thing I'm anxious to check on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=95.6s	95.6	 with Bitsy Bella is her stay. I really want to see how that is. That's like the most important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=100.0s	100.0	 thing for any dog to know and last time I was working with her she was so young so it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=104.3s	104.3	 understandable but she was like holding a one second stay. Let's see if there's been any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=108.2s	108.2	 improvement there. Okay the sit looks good. I'm going to go ahead and reward promptly. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=111.5s	111.5	 using turkey as treats today. Extremely small pieces. Stay. Good. I'm going to reward the one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=117.5s	117.5	 second stay because I really want to set this training session up for success. That was good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=122.1s	122.1	 That's like three seconds. Okay good. I'm going to let her know the stay is over there. Look at her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=126.4s	126.4	 down. That's pretty nice but she's just trying the different things to see hey what results in me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=130.6s	130.6	 getting that thing that I want and that's what you want at this point in their training. You want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=134.5s	134.5	 them looking for ways to get those rewards. That's why we call it currency. Over time you'll be able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=139.2s	139.2	 to phase out rewards but for now it's really important that you get them complying. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=143.4s	143.4	 see if we can get a longer stay now. Stay. Okay good job. Good eye contact. Do you see how she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 looking to me for direction? Let me reinforce that. That's the thing with dogs when they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=155.7s	155.7	 doing things that you like really glue those behaviors in by reinforcing them and giving them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=160.8s	160.8	 the treat so that they're more likely to repeat that desired behavior in the future. That's another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=164.7s	164.7	 reason to keep your treats very small because you want the option to treat endlessly. Let me see if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 I can walk a couple of feet away from her and see if she'll hold it. With smaller dogs it's often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 challenging to get their attention when you stand up because we're so much taller than them. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=179.1s	179.1	 remember the last time that I worked with Betsy Bella she had very little understanding of what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=183.6s	183.6	 it was to communicate with a person and she's just improved by an order of magnitude now. She's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=189.0s	189.0	 great. With smaller dogs like this leash walking can be very challenging. We're going to see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=193.1s	193.1	 her leash walking is doing inside before we go outside because if she's struggling in here well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 there's no point in going outside because that's a much more challenging environment. For this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=201.6s	201.6	 particular training session all I'm really trying to accomplish here is getting her to basically pay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=206.6s	206.6	 attention to me while moving. So I'm going to let her know I've got something good in order to bridge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=211.1s	211.1	 that communication since she's so new to communicating with people it's really important to incentivize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=216.9s	216.9	 your dog to listen. Look at me. Really good look at me from up here. Now let's see if we can get look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=221.8s	221.8	 at me while moving. Come here look at me. Fine. That was like two steps where she was paying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=226.5s	226.5	 attention to me. Come here. Let's go back this way. Come on. Over here. She's a little distracted and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=232.8s	232.8	 will you sit. Nice work. But with Betsy Bella if you just give her a second she probably comes back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=237.4s	237.4	 to paying attention. Good girl. So that's a few steps. You might notice I've been extremely liberal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=242.2s	242.2	 on rewarding her. I'm rewarding her on virtually every success right now just to keep her engaged.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=247.2s	247.2	 I'm just randomly turning so that requires her to pay attention to me. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=252.4s	252.4	 This way. I'm going to go up this way. Come on. Good. And over here and I'm going to reward there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=258.2s	258.2	 So now I had you know probably three or four rewardable moments right there but I chose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=263.4s	263.4	 to reward at the end because she's doing so well. See the turn now this way. Look at that and one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=268.2s	268.2	 more. Oh wow. That is impressive Betsy Bella. Now it's time to see how she does in an outdoor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=275.3s	275.3	 environment which is likely to be much more challenging. I'm so anxious to see how Betsy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=279.8s	279.8	 Bella does outside but before we do leash walking out there it's really important that she knows how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=285.8s	285.8	 to hold her stay at the front door. I mean every dog should learn how to do that. Let's see what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=289.9s	289.9	 happens if I just open the door. Stay. You cannot go outside without permission. The idea here is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=298.6s	298.6	 to really burn it in your dog's brain that they're never to go outside without permission. That's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=304.4s	304.4	 objective of teaching this. So let's get her a little warmed up here. Sit. Notice I have her on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=309.5s	309.5	 leash. You have to be very careful when teaching this because you can't risk your dog bolting out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 of the front door. Most of your dogs are going to outrun you. Stay. Up. Sit. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=323.0s	323.0	 No. Back here. And right there she got up from that sit so I'm just closing the door. No need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=328.2s	328.2	 to leash correct your dog. Stay. Did you see that look she gave me? That's what you're looking for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=337.7s	337.7	 with stuff like this. She kind of turned up and looked at me as if to say, hey is this right? Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=344.6s	344.6	 Up. Oh good correction. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=350.9s	350.9	 Waiting for the look to me. There it is. Good job. Nice work. All right. So there we have a wide open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=356.4s	356.4	 door and she's holding her stay. This is exceptional for a dog of her age. Very good discipline. Very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=363.7s	363.7	 good impulse control. Okay. Let's go. Come on. As many of you already understand when you go outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=368.7s	368.7	 with your dog all bets are off and many of them will act completely differently and it's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 important to be tolerant of that especially when you have a dog new to training or a young dog like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=377.1s	377.1	 this. Let's go ahead and get her warmed up to make sure she's in a teachable mindset. Let's ask her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=382.1s	382.1	 Okay. That's excellent. She's demonstrating that hey, I'm able to listen to you in this environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=387.1s	387.1	 Look at me. Now that is great. Good job girl. Now before you just start taking your dog on a walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=394.7s	394.7	 around the block, you want to make sure that you're dedicating time to training them how to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=399.8s	399.8	 just in front of your house. For example, it's important that you're in a really patient mindset
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=404.2s	404.2	 whenever you do any type of training, but especially leash training. Come on, let's walk this way. Look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=409.3s	409.3	 at me. Oh, she didn't give me a look at me. So I'm going to pause here and just to really emphasize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=414.0s	414.0	 the look at me. This is what I mean when I say train in slow motion, like go real slow. If you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=419.8s	419.8	 don't get the results you're wanting, just stop right there and try to get your dog to pay attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=424.3s	424.3	 to you. She's a little distracted. Now there's a lot going on out here. You want this? Oh, she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=428.9s	428.9	 extra distracted. See how she won't even take the turkey right there. She's really distracted by the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=433.5s	433.5	 general environment over here. She's kind of looking around everywhere. We have some wind out here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=438.0s	438.0	 And so the wind carries lots of sense to it. Remember dogs have an amazing ability to smell.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=443.7s	443.7	 And so that can be highly distracting to them in a way that we don't really understand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=447.5s	447.5	 Notice I'm resisting the urge to pull on her because I want her to think. Come on, let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=456.1s	456.1	 Bitsy. Oh, something's got her attention there. So I'm going to stop right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=461.0s	461.0	 I'm going to put her into a sit if she'll do it. If she won't, I'm going to be patient here. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=465.5s	465.5	 have to try to see things from your dog's perspective. She's new to this world. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=470.3s	470.3	 lots of things that smell on the ground. Sometimes they just need a minute. It's okay for dogs to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=474.6s	474.6	 acknowledge things. You can't expect them to be machines. There's a reason we say patience is one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=479.0s	479.0	 of the most important qualities to possess when training a dog. I'm just going to try and keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=482.7s	482.7	 things a little more random. I'm going to come down this way. Come on. Good. I'm going to turn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=487.4s	487.4	 around over here. Bitsy. Good work. She started to get distracted there. She was smelling something,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=493.0s	493.0	 but I called her and she paid attention to me. That means she decided to abandon what was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=497.1s	497.1	 distracting her and pay attention to me instead. I mean, that's what dog training is all about,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=501.5s	501.5	 isn't it? Don't mind that she's checking out the environment. Come on, this way. The most important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=506.8s	506.8	 thing is that she's kind of following my general direction. That was an excellent turn right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=512.1s	512.1	 Go ahead and reinforce that. Bitsy. Good. Yes. This way. We go and let's see. Let's do another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=519.0s	519.0	 turn. Bitsy. Come on. Good work. Look at that loose leash. Really good work, girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=524.8s	524.8	 Very proud of you. Over here. Come on. Let's go. Good. Let's go. Come on. Good. Good. Good. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=533.1s	533.1	 Good. And turn around. Good. And then how about over here? This way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=538.6s	538.6	 This way. Good. And this way. Yes. Good job. And so for many dogs, leash walking skills can take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=549.4s	549.4	 weeks to months for them to really master. If you have a bigger dog or a stronger dog or a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=554.6s	554.6	 dog with a completely different personality, be sure to check out my leash walking playlist.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=558.6s	558.6	 I'll have a link below. Click thumbs up for Bitsy Bella and check out Pup Fert's all new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=562.5s	562.5	 dehydrated dog food. I'm going to have a link in the description. And if you're looking for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=566.6s	566.6	 really good 30 day course to help get you and your dog on track, check out my absolutely free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=571.2s	571.2	 30 day dog training course, 30 day perfect pup. Follow us on Instagram and Facebook too. All
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZ_P9ypx8Hg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=377&pp=iAQB&t=576.4s	576.4	 the links will be below. See you guys in the next video.
