https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is sponsored by PetFlow. If you've got a dog, you've got to feed them, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=4.1s	4.1	 The absolute easiest way to get your dog's food to your front door is to set up automatic pet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=8.5s	8.5	 food delivery through PetFlow. You just choose your dog's favorite brand of food, tell PetFlow how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=13.0s	13.0	 often you want it to be delivered, and it's there. It's like magic. And to make the service really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=17.4s	17.4	 easy to try, to see if it's right for you, just enter code ZACH30 when you check out, and you'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 get $10 off your first three automatic shipments. Click thumbs up for a new video. Make sure you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=25.3s	25.3	 subscribed to my channel. Have you gotten my best-selling book yet, Dog Training Revolution? I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 have a link in the description. If you're not already, make sure you're following us on Facebook
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=32.9s	32.9	 and Instagram so that you can get the most out of the Dog Training Revolution. Have you ever seen a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=37.7s	37.7	 Newfoundland puppy before? So Angus is a three-month-old dog. He's coming over, and my understanding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=42.4s	42.4	 is he's having issues with come-when-called and some other puppy stuff. I'm really excited to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 a puppy that's three months old and almost 40 pounds already. How has puppy biting been with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=52.9s	52.9	 Angus? Has he been biting you a lot, or has he been really good in that department? He's been amazingly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=57.6s	57.6	 good. He bites his sister a lot. That's actually pretty bad. And so she's two years old, your other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 dog? Yeah. He loves to chew on Callie. Well, and how does she react when he chews on her? Does she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=71.4s	71.4	 snap at him and say, hey, stop that, that's too much? Does she communicate with him in that way?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=75.2s	75.2	 She tries to, but sometimes he is grabbing onto her back and she can't get to him. So you're doing a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 good job of really control or supervising them when they interact. So that's important, that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=85.3s	85.3	 good. And I think that language, I mean, it's really healthy for the older dog to give the puppy the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=89.4s	89.4	 feedback to be like, yo, chill, that's too far. I think you're doing the right thing. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=92.9s	92.9	 protocol in that case. You know, if she's not sending the message in an acceptable way and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 you're uncomfortable with it, separating them and letting them try again, because he'll learn over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=102.0s	102.0	 time. Okay, every time when I get up to that level, play stops, that's no fun. So I think you're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=107.3s	107.3	 the right thing. You just have to probably do that a little bit longer than you might imagine. Does he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=110.6s	110.6	 actually play any fetch indoors? Well, listen, go get it. And by fetch, will he bring it back?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=116.3s	116.3	 Hey, come on, come on, Angus. Yeah. Oh, I know that's okay. I'll take you over the toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=123.1s	123.1	 Can he stand up at all? Because every time I touch him, he seems to just fall over. Hello,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=128.2s	128.2	 hello. I mean, do you see this? Every time he's like, collapse. I know he's the most unstable pup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 I've ever seen. Good job. Go get it. Come on. Over here. Come on. Yes. Good job. There's a mini
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=142.3s	142.3	 fetch right there. That's good. This tug of war right here with Angus is incredible. With him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=146.8s	146.8	 being kind of like moderate energy. He's not super high energy. Is that right? Okay. So fetch might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=152.6s	152.6	 not be such an important part of life for him in terms of getting energy out. Like it is with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=156.6s	156.6	 lot of dogs. You've taught him basics. It looks like his sits great. Look at me. Have you worked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=161.7s	161.7	 on Look at Me? We haven't because he just makes eye contact all the time from working on Rollover.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=166.6s	166.6	 Oh, you are. Rollover can be tough sometimes if they, let's see, because right now. Yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=172.4s	172.4	 I know. Because right now his hips aren't shifted. There it goes. So let's see if we can get him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=178.7s	178.7	 Oh yeah. Easy. Easy peasy. Look at you. You got it. Let's go back the other way. Nice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 What a graceful Roller over you are. And have you done Leave It with him? No, not yet. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=191.0s	191.0	 okay. He'll be good with that. Yes. Good. So I just made that little sound to get him to glance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=199.9s	199.9	 up at me while leaving. So this is the Leave It Look at Me combo. Really important because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 for impulse control. Leave it. Yeah. Yes. So getting him to look at you when there's real meat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 right in front of him. You got to do that before he'll pay attention to you around dogs or cats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=219.4s	219.4	 or squirrels or your other dog. I'll take it. Trying to get sustained eye contact. I'll even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=224.5s	224.5	 cheat a little and use the treat here. You're great. Nice work. And down. Didn't even have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 lure him that time. So you worked on down without having to lure him. Excellent. He's only 12 weeks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=235.0s	235.0	 old and he's doing all this. So that's pretty impressive. You guys have put in some work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=238.8s	238.8	 Or he's just a really good puppy and he's making you look good. Let's see. How about stand? Can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=243.6s	243.6	 you stand? This is going to be hard for you. You're kind of floppy. Come on. There we go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=249.1s	249.1	 Stand. Look at that. Yeah. Stand. Most people don't take the time to teach stand and understandably.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=254.0s	254.0	 So it's I mean it's good for things like grooming and bathing. He's real responsive to lure training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=258.6s	258.6	 and sit. Good. And let's try it up again. I'm just kind of randomly rewarding him since he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=264.1s	264.1	 so reliable and the fact that he's doing so well in this environment is really good too because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=268.2s	268.2	 this is a brand new place. Now, did I hear correctly in that you're having issues with come when called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 with him? Okay. So that's one of the things that I'm trying when they're out in the backyard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=276.9s	276.9	 playing together is calling them both to come. Probably taking a step that's too big. So like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=281.4s	281.4	 while he's all over her. He's super intensely focused on her and that's the time when we would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=286.2s	286.2	 most want him to come because then he's antagonizing, chewing on her and things are escalating but that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=292.9s	292.9	 when he's really intense. Yeah. So with that you kind of want to teach come when called in a vacuum
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=297.0s	297.0	 at first, you know, and really just focus on getting him to come to you without any of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=302.0s	302.0	 distractions. Come on. Yeah. So that's really good. Just coming to me from a foot or two away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=307.4s	307.4	 And so you practice that I'm assuming at home. The next thing I like to do with come when called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=311.4s	311.4	 once they're doing really well with something like that is let's see, let's bring it back over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=316.1s	316.1	 Good. Sit. Stay. Come on. Good. Yes. Good job is to start introducing that distraction. You see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=325.2s	325.2	 so now, now he has an experience of, whoa, I was distracted, but I still came to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=329.7s	329.7	 Much more minor distraction than another dog, but it's where you start. And then gradually we try to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=335.0s	335.0	 intensify those distractions. Okay. Come here. Over here. Okay. Right there. I failed. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=340.7s	340.7	 going to try to lure him back. Sit. Stay. Angus, come. Right there. And I mean, I did put the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=351.0s	351.0	 turkey right at his nose, you know, but, but the reason you do that is to get him to voluntarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=356.1s	356.1	 go through the motions. That really is why in the beginning, having a real high value currency is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 so important. Stay. Angus, come. Oh, that was really good. Did you see, I mean, so right at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=367.0s	367.0	 time, he's like, I'm focused on that turkey and I'm fine. And that's fine because come when called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=371.8s	371.8	 is the kind of thing you've got to enforce in so many different situations and settings. It's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=376.4s	376.4	 like do it a couple of different ways. Your imagination is the limit in terms of creativity.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=381.6s	381.6	 You know, if there's a dog across the street and you're on a walk, put them into a sit, stay, call
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=385.0s	385.0	 them from four feet away while unleash, you know, to come to you in that situation. Dogs are smart.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=389.9s	389.9	 They get like two successes in a row and they're like, okay, I get what you want. Now that becomes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=393.7s	393.7	 much harder. The more intense the distractions are like other animals in particular, but the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=399.2s	399.2	 concept is the same. The next steps would be maybe what's the other dog's name again? Callie. Having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=404.9s	404.9	 Callie hold her down, stay, teaching them both to hold a down, stay independently of one another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=409.6s	409.6	 is going to be huge moving forward. So I'd really prioritize that with hers and she's already there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=414.6s	414.6	 like staying no matter what. If you say stay and you call him, she needs to know, hold,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=419.2s	419.2	 because that's what it'll set up being able to train two dogs at one time. That's the foundation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=423.1s	423.1	 That's the only way you can really get it done. One of my questions actually for you is how do we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=427.6s	427.6	 start by, she's already good at stuff, but I don't know if she associates the certain command with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=432.6s	432.6	 her name if I give him a separate command. Yeah. So I don't, I'm not really sure. The way I've done this because, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=439.4s	439.4	 until recently I had three dogs and the way that I would do that is I would just get in the habit of,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=443.6s	443.6	 you know, Venus stay, Nova come, you know, and really just precede each request with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=449.0s	449.0	 their name and they would come to learn that. So it's just a matter of being really consistent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=454.1s	454.1	 and starting super elementary and super easy at first and make it as easy as you can in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=458.6s	458.6	 beginning. Like in your living room, stay right there for two seconds while I say sit. Good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=463.0s	463.0	 you did awesome. You know what I mean? You help that stay while he sat and it's really just getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=468.9s	468.9	 traction right there. Dogs are pretty smart though because once they get it, you know, they tend to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=474.9s	474.9	 really start excelling. You guys are clearly dedicated at teaching them. The biggest challenge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=479.8s	479.8	 we had recently with her before him was there was a chicken that started hanging out outside of our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=487.2s	487.2	 house and she really wanted to chase the chicken. No matter how much I tried to get her to focus,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=494.9s	494.9	 like the best I could do was unleash on our top step, having her sit and like constantly treating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=501.9s	501.9	 her for just sitting there. You do the right thing. That's exactly what you do. If we walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=506.4s	506.4	 down any closer immediately. Right. Yeah. So and it's tough because you can't always control when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=511.8s	511.8	 the chicken's there and when the chicken's not. Right. But you can find equally enticing situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=516.3s	516.3	 like a dog park, for example. It's not a single training session thing usually. So it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=521.4s	521.4	 let's get you really good here over the next five training sessions while there's a chicken down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=525.0s	525.0	 there. Now let's see if we can do this two steps down, sit, stay and look at me and also vigorous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=530.2s	530.2	 exercise just before those training sessions helps tremendously. Like, yeah, like 10 times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=535.0s	535.0	 The one thing that I'm concerned about in the future is right now, if he walks super well on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=540.2s	540.2	 leash, if you were to ever lunge at something, you want to make sure you have control. Oh, right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=545.7s	545.7	 And so right now there's not really anything to work on because he's already doing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=551.2s	551.2	 Keep reinforcing the good behavior. I mean, good. And that's the thing I think that's most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=555.6s	555.6	 nonintuitive about teaching dogs as we tend to think, all right, you know, as long as they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=560.1s	560.1	 doing good, I'm just going to kind of go with this. But it's really advisable to reinforce good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=565.0s	565.0	 behavior, even if it's never been bad before. Let him know, I love that you're walking so slow. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=569.4s	569.4	 that's awesome. You know, I mean, a treat every 10 steps or something like that to let him know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=574.1s	574.1	 that's good. And then when he does invariably walk a few steps ahead immediately, I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=578.9s	578.9	 the quicker you can redirect him into ideal behavior and keep that unwanted behavior from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=584.4s	584.4	 occurring, the better off you'll be. It only takes a couple of times of a dog doing something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=588.8s	588.8	 you don't want for that habit to start to get out of control. It really doesn't take much at all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=593.8s	593.8	 And even if it happens, you can always fix it, but it's a lot easier when it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=598.1s	598.1	 doesn't happen to begin with. So we have some different rules that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=601.8s	601.8	 enforce for them. Interesting. Yeah. Kelly is allowed on the couch. We don't want him on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=607.3s	607.3	 couch because eventually he's going to be as big as the couch. And it will always be that way. As
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=613.1s	613.1	 far as you can tell right now, one dog allowed, one dog not. Which is fine. Yeah. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=617.9s	617.9	 that's the beauty of training dogs. I'm a firm believer and you can make the rules any way you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=622.9s	622.9	 want. Double standards are fine. I mean, I think all of that is fine. Dogs are smart. And if one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=627.9s	627.9	 rule is okay for one dog and it's not okay for another dog, I mean, I think that as long as you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=633.0s	633.0	 enforce and you're consistent with the rules with the respect of dogs, then you'll be fine.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=636.9s	636.9	 Dogs are really sophisticated and they're really smart. And they've shown us time and time again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=641.0s	641.0	 that they're capable of listening contextually. You know, it's not like they're not computers where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=645.7s	645.7	 it's all or nothing. I hope you enjoyed today's video. Click thumbs up if you did. Over on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=649.2s	649.2	 Instagram, we often go live and I'll answer your questions and it's a really good vibe over there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=653.8s	653.8	 So follow us on Instagram. That link will be in the description. Set up automatic pet food delivery
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=658.2s	658.2	 at PepFlo. Remember enter code Zach 30 and you'll get $10 off your first three orders just so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nNiHZhiNkiM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=379&pp=iAQB&t=662.8s	662.8	 can try the service and see if it's for you. Okay, guys, we'll see you in the next video.
