https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey, Andy, let's see what you think of this new NutriSource food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=3.0s	3.0	 NutriSource is a super high quality premium food, but what makes it different than other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=7.3s	7.3	 foods?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=8.3s	8.3	 They actually mill their own legumes and grains, grind their own meats, and cook all of their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=12.5s	12.5	 recipes below 200 degrees to maximize nutrition.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 That means more nutrient dense recipes that are highly absorbable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=19.1s	19.1	 So you can actually feed your dog less and get more nutrition.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=22.6s	22.6	 Plus, nutrient dense recipes taste better, so even the pickiest pets will love it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=27.0s	27.0	 NutriSource created a proprietary blend of supplements for their food, and they call
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=30.0s	30.0	 this Good for Life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=31.4s	31.4	 This blend can relieve common stomach issues, allergies, and digestive issues.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=35.8s	35.8	 Their puppy formulas deliver super premium nutrition with higher levels of protein and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=39.7s	39.7	 fat that your puppy needs when they're growing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=41.9s	41.9	 This ingredient list is about as impressive as it gets.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=44.2s	44.2	 I mean, does your dog food have garbanzo beans and red lentils, for example?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 This is the best value pound for pound when it comes to cost, quality ingredients, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 their unsurpassed Good for Life supplements.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=54.4s	54.4	 She knows quality when she eats it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=55.8s	55.8	 And their quality extends to their treats as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 And you can get NutriSource's high quality food from PetFlow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=61.6s	61.6	 You can select NutriSource's products to be automatically delivered to you in any time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=65.2s	65.2	 interval you prefer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 Just enter code ZACH30 when you check out, and you'll get $10 off your first three orders.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 Click thumbs up for Indy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=72.4s	72.4	 Make sure you're subscribed to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=73.8s	73.8	 Get a copy of my book.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=74.8s	74.8	 If you enjoy our content, you're going to love us on Instagram.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=77.2s	77.2	 I'm going to have my Instagram below, at Zach George.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=79.7s	79.7	 In fact, today I'm going to take a few of your questions exclusively from Instagram.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=84.3s	84.3	 Please do a video on obedience after electric collar training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=87.5s	87.5	 What if my dog is very well trained but blows off commands when I remove the electric collar?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=91.6s	91.6	 What I like about this question is that it underscores a very important point and something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=96.3s	96.3	 that's fundamentally flawed about using things like electric collars, prong collars, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=100.7s	100.7	 choke chains.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=101.7s	101.7	 A little background, this is an electric collar right here, and they usually come with a remote
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=105.9s	105.9	 control like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=107.3s	107.3	 These collars are basically designed and specifically engineered to be very unpleasant to your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=112.2s	112.2	 You can see it has these prongs right here that go into the dog's neck so that they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=117.2s	117.2	 be very unpleasant for the dog when they're not behaving ideally.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=120.3s	120.3	 I'm very established on record as being very against these types of tools, and I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=125.7s	125.7	 think that they should be used in dog training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=127.6s	127.6	 However, I still want to be clear that if you're one of those people out there using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=130.3s	130.3	 them, I understand you're using these because some professional out there told you to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=134.7s	134.7	 Part of the mission of the dog training revolution is to kind of clean up that mess and show
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=138.2s	138.2	 you better ways to communicate with your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 This is a prong collar.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=141.3s	141.3	 This is another common training tool that people struggle with the same issue with.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=144.6s	144.6	 When they take the collar off, the dog doesn't listen as well anymore.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=148.5s	148.5	 This is a choke chain right here that, you know, I understand a lot of you use these,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=152.8s	152.8	 and to your credit, for those of you out there who are using them, I also get that you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=156.4s	156.4	 not using them in the way that they're intended to, which in my view is a good thing, because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=160.4s	160.4	 the proper way to use a choke chain is to give it a brup-pup every time your dog doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=164.3s	164.3	 do something you like.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=165.3s	165.3	 But of course, I think you'll agree, at least most of you will, that's a very primitive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 with a very intelligent animal like a dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 And in and of themselves, these aren't exactly harmful, just hanging around your dog's neck.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=176.1s	176.1	 It's when you use them correctly, as they say, that they become very unpleasant and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=181.0s	181.0	 potentially harmful, and even if not physically, certainly harmful to the relationship between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=185.7s	185.7	 you and your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=186.7s	186.7	 And that really is my biggest issues with tools like this, is they do nothing to promote
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=190.5s	190.5	 a bond between you and your dog, and that is such an important factor when you're teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=194.8s	194.8	 them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=195.8s	195.8	 And I learned in this question, the moment you take these off, dogs are going to get,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 oh, that collar isn't on me anymore, so I can act as I want.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=202.6s	202.6	 That's one of the shortcomings of training like this, and really why you should focus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=205.9s	205.9	 on training your dog from the inside out by motivating them to want to listen to you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=210.8s	210.8	 rather than forcing them to listen to you, as in the case of using these collars.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=215.2s	215.2	 Now I've gone over how to teach your dog to leave a treat alone a million times, leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=218.4s	218.4	 it alone, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=219.4s	219.4	 And the way I always show you to teach this is by covering up the treat, if they go for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=223.3s	223.3	 to really make your dog think, rather than just simply pulling them away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=226.9s	226.9	 The common thing that I know a lot of you also deal with out there is when you open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=230.1s	230.1	 the door, your dog will run out of the front door, even though you might be pushing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=234.0s	234.0	 So you've gotten in this habit of kind of holding them back and, you know, keeping them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=237.5s	237.5	 back with your foot, just keep them from running out of the front door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=240.6s	240.6	 That doesn't exactly work well, does it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=242.6s	242.6	 That's why when you teach your dog how to think, you're going to get much better results.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=246.5s	246.5	 Leave it alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=247.5s	247.5	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=248.5s	248.5	 Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=249.5s	249.5	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=251.2s	251.2	 Bottom line is that if you're using training tools like this in very harsh ways that I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=255.1s	255.1	 mentioned, it's a very shallow way to communicate with a dog and shallow ways of communication
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=260.3s	260.3	 don't really have long lasting results.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=262.3s	262.3	 So what I would recommend to this particular Instagrammer is to check out my videos and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=266.1s	266.1	 basically start over training your dog, train your dog how to think from the inside out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=270.4s	270.4	 so that you can get actual long lasting results, not contingent on using some special collar.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=275.8s	275.8	 This next question is from Anna Gillespie 4450 on Instagram who says, I would love a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=281.1s	281.1	 video on raising a border collie pup with tips on how to deal with herding behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=284.9s	284.9	 directed towards cars and other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=288.2s	288.2	 And look, while it is true that many border collie puppies certainly have that herding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=293.4s	293.4	 desire, what you're talking about is basically just normal puppy behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 I can assure you that puppies of virtually every breed out there like to chase cars,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 bicycles, people, dogs, and everything else.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=305.6s	305.6	 And so what I really want to clear up about a question like this is I just don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=309.1s	309.1	 you to get in the mindset of kind of blaming your dog's breed for issues that you're having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 rather than really just understanding that you need to take the time to teach them how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=316.9s	316.9	 to behave in these types of situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=319.1s	319.1	 That said, I understand it can be pretty overwhelming to teach a dog who's majorly distracted, especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=324.4s	324.4	 if they're a really high energy dog as many border collies often are.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=327.7s	327.7	 So in your case, Anna, it's less likely that your dog is actually herding other dogs and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=331.4s	331.4	 people and more likely that they're just being a dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=334.3s	334.3	 I'd really prioritize fetch training so that your dog has an outlet for all of that energy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=339.8s	339.8	 Next I'd focus on really doing a lot of impulse control training in the presence of cars and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=344.4s	344.4	 dogs and other things that your dog is likely to react to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=347.0s	347.0	 And by that, I mean teaching your dog how to look at you and sit and stay and take other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=350.9s	350.9	 types of direction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=351.9s	351.9	 Now, where most people go wrong with this is number one, they wait for their dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=355.6s	355.6	 start reacting to a situation like this to then communicate with them when their dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=359.8s	359.8	 is just completely overwhelmed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=362.3s	362.3	 That's not necessarily a good idea.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=363.9s	363.9	 Set up training instances that are near or around these types of situations, but not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=368.1s	368.1	 right up on them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=369.1s	369.1	 So in the case of dogs, you might practice working with your dog on sit and stay outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=373.3s	373.3	 the perimeter of a dog park where you have a fence between your dog and other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=377.3s	377.3	 That way you're in a position to easily manipulate the distance between your dog and the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=381.6s	381.6	 on the other side of the fence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=383.5s	383.5	 In general, the farther you are away from a distraction, the more likely it is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=387.2s	387.2	 your dog will pay attention to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=389.1s	389.1	 And you can focus on really giving them that foundation and training that they need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=393.3s	393.3	 truly understand how to behave when they're put in this type of situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=397.4s	397.4	 But exercise, don't gloss over that point.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=400.1s	400.1	 It's a serious point and one that will make training usually in your situation much easier,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=405.7s	405.7	 especially when you use exercise just before your training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=410.3s	410.3	 And cherryblossom88 from Instagram says, what if your puppy doesn't really like treats?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=414.9s	414.9	 It's obviously important to have a really good currency when you're teaching your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=418.8s	418.8	 like good treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=420.1s	420.1	 And it is true that some dogs just aren't as into treats as others.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=423.8s	423.8	 There's usually two major solutions to this problem.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=427.3s	427.3	 Very often when someone says their dog doesn't like treats, it's because they're using a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=430.7s	430.7	 treat that's too low value.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=433.2s	433.2	 Very often they'll be using like hardened milk bone type treats, or they'll use even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=437.6s	437.6	 their dog's kibble, or just some treat that their dog isn't nuts about.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=440.8s	440.8	 Now I usually recommend that you're using something really good like real chicken or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=444.7s	444.7	 some type of real meat, but really small pieces of course.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=447.8s	447.8	 But even then there are still some dogs who are like, you know what, I don't even like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=450.7s	450.7	 the real meat, the best stuff you have to offer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=453.4s	453.4	 And usually that's a sign that you're asking your dog to listen to you in either a situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=458.7s	458.7	 that they're very excited in, or a situation that makes them very nervous where the last
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=462.9s	462.9	 thing they're thinking about is food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=465.3s	465.3	 So it doesn't really mean that your dog or your puppy doesn't like treats, it just means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=469.0s	469.0	 that they're not interested in treats at that particular moment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=471.9s	471.9	 I mean all dogs have to eat, remember that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=474.1s	474.1	 So food is definitely going to be a motivator at some point for dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=477.9s	477.9	 If you're in the position where your dog is like either barking at another dog and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=481.6s	481.6	 can't get their attention with a really high quality treat, or they're very nervous perhaps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=485.7s	485.7	 because I don't know maybe they're nervous of men for example, protocol in that situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=490.4s	490.4	 is to take a step back on your training and ease them into that type of situation rather
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=494.8s	494.8	 than kind of moving so quickly to where your dog is completely overwhelmed and in a state
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=499.7s	499.7	 of mind that makes them not want to eat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=501.9s	501.9	 I hope that makes sense.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=503.2s	503.2	 For many dogs we have to go much slower than we think we do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=506.3s	506.3	 Additionally, giving your dog up to maybe 30 minutes or so to kind of warm up to a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=510.5s	510.5	 environment might also get them in a frame of mind that gets them receptive to taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=514.3s	514.3	 treats too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=515.6s	515.6	 So always be cognizant of the context in which you're asking your dog to do something and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=520.5s	520.5	 analyze that first because that's usually the reason a dog won't take at least high
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=524.9s	524.9	 quality treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=526.2s	526.2	 It's also true that a lot of dogs out there would prefer to play a game of tug of war
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=530.3s	530.3	 or have a quick toss of a ball rather than eating food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=533.6s	533.6	 I know with my own border collies that I've had over the years, every single one of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=537.2s	537.2	 preferred to play over eating during training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=540.3s	540.3	 Indy, I'm very proud of you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=541.6s	541.6	 You did a good job today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=542.6s	542.6	 Give her a thumbs up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=543.6s	543.6	 Get your Nutrisaurus Dog Food automatically shipped to you from Petflow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=546.6s	546.6	 That link is going to be below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=548.2s	548.2	 Make sure you're subscribed to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=549.9s	549.9	 Maybe I'll do another video where I take questions from Instagram.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=552.6s	552.6	 So make sure you like me on Instagram at Zach George.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=556.2s	556.2	 That link will be below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSOk2dn6LaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=380&pp=iAQB&t=557.2s	557.2	 See you guys in the next video.
