https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by Petflow. I recently realized that I haven't had to go to a pet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=4.0s	4.0	 supply store in years to get food for my dogs. Petflow will automatically ship your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=8.7s	8.7	 to you so that you don't have to run that errand ever again. Just choose your dog's favorite food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=13.6s	13.6	 and how often you want it to be delivered. Enter coupon code ZAK30 to get $10 off your first three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=19.2s	19.2	 orders. I'll have details in the description. Have you ever wondered what to do in order to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=23.0s	23.0	 dog to be more accepting of thunderstorms? I mean, it's true. So many dogs are really nervous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=28.0s	28.0	 about thunderstorms. Think about how they sound and how intimidating they can be, especially if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=32.3s	32.3	 you don't understand what's causing that. So I've just gotten a notification here that we're about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=36.7s	36.7	 to have a thunderstorm come through and I thought this might be a good training opportunity for Tilly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=41.9s	41.9	 the puppy. I've got a toy here. I've got some treats. The idea with thunderstorms ideally is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=47.0s	47.0	 try to teach them not to be afraid of thunderstorms from the beginning rather than waiting for a fear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=51.7s	51.7	 to develop to then address it. Nonetheless, if your dog is scared of thunderstorms, you can still apply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=56.9s	56.9	 the tips we're going to cover today. My first goal here is if at all possible is to try to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=62.2s	62.2	 Tilly playing. We're just trying to create an atmosphere of normalcy around things that could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=67.8s	67.8	 potentially be scary like thunderstorms. The mindset that a dog is in when they're playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 is a very healthy one. It indicates that they're in a good mood. They're not particularly stressed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 out. Furthermore, if you can get them associating play with something that potentially could cause
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=83.2s	83.2	 them angst, the idea is to get them to associate that approaching storm with fun playtime. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=88.5s	88.5	 there we go. That's good. Look at that. It's getting closer. I mean, look at her right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=93.3s	93.3	 She's obviously in a good mood. I'm just going to go ahead and give her a little piece of chicken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=97.2s	97.2	 right here. And I'm not even really asking her to do anything at all. I just want her to think,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=101.4s	101.4	 oh, wow, that's good. We're just trying to get her to associate the approaching storm with something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=106.8s	106.8	 that makes her happy. And what dog isn't made happy by chicken, right? So since she's pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=111.3s	111.3	 comfortable, I'm just going to initiate a pretty standard training session. She still needs to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=115.4s	115.4	 learn how to sit and lie down outside. There we go. Good work. Can you do a roll over? I'm not sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=122.7s	122.7	 if you guys can hear that, but that thunder is getting a bit closer here. It might also help that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=128.2s	128.2	 we're not dealing with an extremely intense thunderstorm either. If you just look at Tilly's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=132.6s	132.6	 overall body language, she looks really content here. It's okay to calm them and give them some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=137.5s	137.5	 nice gentle petting and let them know that everything's okay in the best way that you can.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=142.5s	142.5	 But anytime you're dealing with issues of anxiety, some are more complex and deep rooted than others.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=148.1s	148.1	 Some dogs will have a lifelong fear of thunderstorms. And in those cases, your goal should be to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=153.5s	153.5	 minimize their anxiety rather than trying to get rid of it altogether. So my dog, Venus, for example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=159.7s	159.7	 always enjoyed being in the closet when a thunderstorm would approach. She felt safer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=163.4s	163.4	 there. So we made sure that we gave her an optimal closet to go and burrow in and be more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 comfortable. So I just want to emphasize that all dogs aren't equal in that area. Some will be less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=173.5s	173.5	 afraid than others, and some will be scared for a longer period of time than others. And you can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=178.6s	178.6	 always get rid of all anxieties either, but you can just about always improve a dog's level of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=184.3s	184.3	 anxiety. It's particularly hard to prepare for thunderstorm training too, because you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=189.4s	189.4	 you can't control the variables as well. You can't control when a thunderstorm comes. So in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=193.7s	193.7	 case, we're just taking advantage of the fact that a thunderstorm is approaching and it's a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=197.3s	197.3	 opportunity to get a single training session in. If you do find yourself caught off guard by an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=202.9s	202.9	 approaching storm, oftentimes lightning can be your cue to get into training mode, because often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=208.8s	208.8	 there's a delay between the lightning and the sound of the thunder. When you see a lightning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=212.4s	212.4	 strike, that's your cue to let your dog know, hey, it's about to thunder. It's okay. Break out your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=216.7s	216.7	 treats if necessary to see if you can get their mind on other things. As long as they're taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=220.9s	220.9	 treats or playing with you during those events, whether it's fireworks or thunder, then you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=225.8s	225.8	 probably well on your way to making a lot of improvement. Now, if they're so stressed that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=229.6s	229.6	 they won't play with you, they won't take treats, then you'll just need to play the long game. Be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=234.2s	234.2	 more patient and understand that it will take more time to reduce that type of anxiety. Keep an eye
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=239.0s	239.0	 on the radar on your phone so that you know when rain is on the way. Get out there, play fetch,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=243.1s	243.1	 say 30 minutes before the rain is scheduled to arrive, and that should also help you. By exercising
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=248.5s	248.5	 your dog just before thunderstorms are likely to happen, then that goes a long way towards reducing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=254.8s	254.8	 all types of anxiety. If you enjoyed today's video, make sure you click thumbs up for Tilly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=259.0s	259.0	 Subscribe to my channel, get a copy of my book. Follow us on Instagram and Facebook too. I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3Ji--gbuyA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=390&pp=iAQB&t=263.2s	263.2	 have all those links in the description below. See you guys in the next video. Good job, girl.
