https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by Zajic's Pet. You can use promo code ZAK20 to get 20% off of any order from Zajic's Pet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=6.6s	6.6	 I'll have a special link and a coupon code in the description of this video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=9.8s	9.8	 Click thumbs up for our dog Indy and subscribe to my channel too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=12.8s	12.8	 We all know that giving our dogs baths is a great way to keep them clean.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=15.9s	15.9	 But there are some things we can do outside of bath time to keep them squeaky clean.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=20.0s	20.0	 Think outside the bath. That's clever.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=22.6s	22.6	 I'm really excited to try out these Zajic's Pet products which make keeping your dog clean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=26.7s	26.7	 way easier than it used to be. This is not your average dog cleaning stuff.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=30.2s	30.2	 Everything we're going to see today is made with natural organic plant-based ingredients like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=34.0s	34.0	 oatmeal, aloe, and Moroccan argan oil which is great for moisturizing fur and skin.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=38.9s	38.9	 All of these ingredients are known to be extra soothing and safe for dogs without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=42.2s	42.2	 harmful or unnatural ingredients. Especially if your dog has sensitive skin, these are great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=46.1s	46.1	 Today we're going to try these products out and go over some training tips to help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 make keeping your dog clean much faster and easier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 This is something I've not heard of before. It's waterless shampoo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=55.0s	55.0	 This is great to help you go for a longer period of time in between baths if your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=58.9s	58.9	 gets really dirty. Just like you, Indy. Whenever you're going to do anything new with your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 it's important to start really slow. Indy's never had a waterless shampoo bath before,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=69.2s	69.2	 so I'm letting her nibble on some meat here. Just to let her know right off the bat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=73.2s	73.2	 this is going to be a fun, pleasant experience. You literally just pump this foam into your hands
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=77.8s	77.8	 and apply it to your dog's coat. Then you just massage it in and let it dry on its own.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 Or you can use a brush or a towel if your dog is extra dirty.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=84.6s	84.6	 This is a really great way to condition your dog or counter-condition your dog to enjoy taking a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=91.0s	91.0	 bath. Because this is obviously a much lighter version than a full-on bath for your dog. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=96.2s	96.2	 can kind of get them used to being touched and massaged while rubbing this in. Plus that smell,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=101.4s	101.4	 which is really pleasant on this, is likely to give them that association with a pleasant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=106.2s	106.2	 experience as well. So you can see she's enjoying the meat a lot. It smells so good. It smells a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=111.6s	111.6	 lot better than dirty dog. That's a natural almond vanilla fragrance. You're very good at taking a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=116.7s	116.7	 waterless bath. You're also very good at eating meat too. She's doing really well, so now I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=121.7s	121.7	 really get into it with both hands here. Indy, you're doing so well. Yes, you are. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=128.3s	128.3	 I'll go ahead and give her a treat. We're doing a good job. And even if your dog does love baths,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=133.7s	133.7	 this is a great alternative to having to give them baths super often. When surprise guests
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=138.6s	138.6	 show up at your house, you can give your dog a quick rub down with this waterless shampoo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=142.5s	142.5	 to make sure they're extra fresh. How did I never know about this before? This is fantastic. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=147.0s	147.0	 like already dry. I'm going to brush this and look. I mean, she's really shiny already. Now let's say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=151.8s	151.8	 you just need to spot clean your dog. These grooming wipes look pretty cool. These wipes are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=156.0s	156.0	 really saturated too. You can even see the bubbles. So if you were introducing these to your dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=160.6s	160.6	 you would start really softly just by kind of touching them like that. And again, letting her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=164.7s	164.7	 nibble on some meat. See that? Nice work. You don't want to necessarily go straight into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=168.9s	168.9	 sensitive areas like their ears or their feet without kind of giving them some advance notice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=173.2s	173.2	 Just be really gentle. And that's to get her used to it so she'll be more tolerant. You don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=177.0s	177.0	 to come on too strong too early when you're introducing your dog to new grooming techniques.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=182.5s	182.5	 Good job. Look at that. That's what you want right there at first. Nice job. I'm not really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=189.1s	189.1	 focused on getting her clean at this particular moment as I am just getting her used to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=193.4s	193.4	 grooming wipes, but she's doing great. So you can graduate from the nibbling of the treat to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=198.6s	198.6	 touching her and then rewarding as your dog begins to adapt and get used to this. Yes. Nice work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=206.0s	206.0	 Very good, Indy. Yes. Good. I'm going to get under her chin a little bit. Oh, good job. These are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=212.6s	212.6	 great for those dogs who get really messy faces or feet. They're good for ear wipes as well. Look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=218.0s	218.0	 at that. So we're trying her ears now. Let's see how she does with her feet. Indy has really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=223.0s	223.0	 sensitive feet. You're doing wonderful here. Take a treat. One of the reasons you don't want to use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=226.9s	226.9	 human cleaning products on your dog is that they're not pH balanced specifically for dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=231.3s	231.3	 but all Zodiac's pet products are. I like this container too. It's extra portable. So it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=235.6s	235.6	 another great item to keep with you when you're traveling with your dog or just out and about with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=239.4s	239.4	 them. Hey Indy, guess what? It's time for a bath. Your favorite thing. It's a pretty hot day today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=244.3s	244.3	 So we're going to do an outdoor bath. Do you give your dog's baths outside or inside? Tell me in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=248.4s	248.4	 comments below. We're going to start by getting Indy nice and wet, but what I'm going to do before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=252.7s	252.7	 I just spray her with the hose, obviously, and this is something you'll want to do with your dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=256.7s	256.7	 If they're not really loving getting a bath at home is I'm going to just let this trickle. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=260.9s	260.9	 going to give her a little piece of meat right there. Just letting her know, look, it's over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=265.1s	265.1	 You're getting meat. See that good. You're doing great. Most dogs don't enjoy taking a bath right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=271.8s	271.8	 off the bat. So it's just one of those things we have to ease them into. Nice job. Good girl,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=278.7s	278.7	 Indy. I'm so proud of you. All right, we're going to lather her up nice and slowly. I've got the one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=283.7s	283.7	 gallon container of shampoo, but you can get this in a 16 ounce container as well. Indy loves her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=288.5s	288.5	 massages during baths. So I know she'll enjoy this part a lot. With traditional dog shampoos, have you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=293.5s	293.5	 ever noticed how it takes forever to rinse it out of their coat? Especially if you have a fluffy dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=298.0s	298.0	 like Indy, this shampoo actually comes out in a single rinse. It makes her baths take a lot less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=303.6s	303.6	 time, which is always a plus when you're bathing a dog. It's coming out fast. You can already see the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=308.5s	308.5	 water beating. All that shampoo is gone. Squeaky clean. Yes, you are. You're doing wonderful.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=315.3s	315.3	 Going slow like this and really just easing your dog into taking a bath. You want to see success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=320.1s	320.1	 over the first several baths. Now we're going to spray Indy with the conditioner and detangler.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=324.4s	324.4	 When you use the conditioner and detangler right after a bath, it gives you a real deep conditioning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=329.1s	329.1	 You can also use it between baths to freshen up and detangle your dog's fur. If your dog gets knots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=333.8s	333.8	 or tangles, this is what you want to do to keep their hair nice and smooth and silky. Of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 daily brushing is good to minimize dirt and dander. And this detangler will make brushing so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=343.1s	343.1	 easier and more effective. It's great for coarse and tangled fur or fur that just isn't as soft as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=348.2s	348.2	 it could be. And Indy enjoys being brushed too, but you would follow the same steps that we've done so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=352.4s	352.4	 far and really ease your dog into it if they didn't like being brushed. This works on long hair or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=357.3s	357.3	 short hair dogs, which is wonderful because Indy is kind of both. She's a mud. You're going to smell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=362.3s	362.3	 so good and look so good, Indy. You can get 20% off of any Zajic's pet order when you enter coupon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=368.6s	368.6	 code ZAK20. All the details will be in the description of this video. Indy did a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYqQUdpofh0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=391&pp=iAQB&t=372.6s	372.6	 job today. Click thumbs up and don't forget to subscribe to my channel. See you guys next time.
