https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Thank you PetFlow for sponsoring today's episode. If you want to eliminate trips to the store to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=4.3s	4.3	 buy your pet's food, just go to PetFlow and choose your favorite brand of food and then tell them how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=9.0s	9.0	 often you want it to be delivered. Maybe every two to three weeks for example. When you enter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=13.3s	13.3	 code ZACH30 you'll get $10 off your first three orders. So try it, see if you like it. Save time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 and know that you're making your life easier and you're supporting the dog training revolution.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=22.6s	22.6	 I'll have their link and coupon code in the description below. Right now we're waiting on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=26.6s	26.6	 the German Shepherd dog. One of the things that people are really concerned about is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=30.2s	30.2	 Luke tends to react towards people like on a walk and since he's such a big dog a lot of people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=35.3s	35.3	 might be intimidated by him. I've never seen a German Shepherd dog with these types of markings
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=39.6s	39.6	 but apparently one of his parents was a white shepherd, is that right? Yes, he was all white.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=43.3s	43.3	 Okay and one of them was a more traditional looking? Yes, a black with a little bit of brown on him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=47.2s	47.2	 What issues are you having? It's like you're walking on eggshells with him when you bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 him somewhere. Okay. You know he's good, he's a really good dog like at home and you know even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=55.8s	55.8	 with people around certain certain people I guess he doesn't like. It's particularly common in a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=60.5s	60.5	 of dogs genetics to just be wary of strangers you know it sounds like that's what you're saying.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=65.4s	65.4	 So even when I met him I you know I had to do a second take because I was like okay how is he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=69.0s	69.0	 because he was looking like hey I'm not going to jump all over you and love you I need to check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=72.2s	72.2	 you out first and that's what was selected for when creating these so that's one of their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=76.6s	76.6	 one of their things. I don't think the protective behavior is necessarily bad you just want to bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 it down a few notches. While you certainly can't make him a dog that he isn't I mean he's probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=86.4s	86.4	 always going to have a lot of that in him what you can do is work on teaching him to be more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 tolerant around people and not quite so nervous or suspicious of other people and one way to do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=99.0s	99.0	 is to actively train around other people doing things that he likes. You you can't just wait for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=104.6s	104.6	 walk time when you're out walking him to then train him when he starts to become nervous of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=108.6s	108.6	 someone so you have to proactively go out of your way when you're walking with him to just kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=113.4s	113.4	 you know pick a spot stay there for five minutes with a crowd of kids playing in the distance for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=118.3s	118.3	 example work on training work on play. Ideally the thing to do is play fetch with him right before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=123.5s	123.5	 you take him anywhere in public that means on walks where he's likely to encounter pedestrians
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=127.7s	127.7	 kids dogs all of that. I'm trying to see how he does with treats in this new environment right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=132.4s	132.4	 he's really responsive although when I get on the ground look at this he's taller than I am.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=136.9s	136.9	 Bri do you think this will be big enough for him? I hope so. I was just using Turkey I still have it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=141.0s	141.0	 in my hand I brought out the tug toy and he immediately went into tug of war oh I love this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=146.9s	146.9	 love that tug of war so you probably know how I feel about tug of war I love it I think it's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=151.1s	151.1	 great currency. When I take him to the park he generally does not like to play with any toys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=155.8s	155.8	 I hear that a lot too and that's so normal because there's nothing that will cause a dog to act more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=161.0s	161.0	 uncharacteristically than a new exciting environment. The way around that is to spend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=165.2s	165.2	 tons of time in new environments so about you know twice a week spend one or two hours first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=169.8s	169.8	 thing in the morning at the park that should really desensitize him and get him used to it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=173.4s	173.4	 because he's only a year old right? Yeah. So at that age they're still growing up and taking in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=177.7s	177.7	 the world and all that when they're amped up they're just like I can't pay attention to anything man
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=181.8s	181.8	 I gotta I gotta get this energy out but then once you get their energy out they're like okay cool
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 what do you want me to do? I've been playing tug with him here not just because it's fun but because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=190.5s	190.5	 I'm trying to get him to like me you know what I mean? There's no way to accelerate a dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=195.2s	195.2	 acceptance of a person than to get that person playing with them. The next best thing is getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=199.1s	199.1	 him to play in the presence of that person who's coming up and the more you play tug with him the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=204.7s	204.7	 more you play fetch with him the more addicted he's going to become to it and it intensifies over time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=208.8s	208.8	 you've probably already seen that to a degree. Would you say he's good on a basic leave it? He
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=212.6s	212.6	 was a little while ago but I mean he's he may be out of practice. So I've got real turkey here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=216.6s	216.6	 you know so leave it alone. Nice good sit please good job up here look at me nice work very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=228.4s	228.4	 now come on over here let's go we're gonna behave all right good job you know so if he was barking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=233.3s	233.3	 at a stranger over there it's over here look at me please yes good have you specifically worked on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=239.0s	239.0	 this exercise with him? So this is a killer important exercise especially for the issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=244.1s	244.1	 you're dealing with if you can't get his eyes you don't have him so you have to work on being able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=248.2s	248.2	 to get his eyes in a variety of contexts. Stay how was this stay? Stay while you walk away or not?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=255.6s	255.6	 Probably not. Yeah and see you really do need to work on all of that all that obedience training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=260.6s	260.6	 because wouldn't it be great to be able to say stay stay there I'm gonna go shake hands with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=264.5s	264.5	 person over here for example you can see that we're getting along everything's cool you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=269.0s	269.0	 it gives you more tools to manage him when he is around somebody and you need to set up artificial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=274.5s	274.5	 situations that are on the threshold of that area does that make sense? Yes. He tends to get nervous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=280.3s	280.3	 around people and won't look at you because he's like I don't know about that you have to seek out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=284.2s	284.2	 situations where you can easily manipulate the distance between you and other people individuals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=289.8s	289.8	 in your case not crowds so you know some place like Laugh In Your Park or whatever where people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=294.3s	294.3	 are going by and you know if you say look at me and they're 10 feet away and he's saying no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=299.0s	299.0	 to get 10 feet farther back now look at me please you know and so there the instinct for people is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=306.9s	306.9	 to wait until something happens to then address it but you actually have to go out and create
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=311.9s	311.9	 those instances where you have more control understand the muzzle is a management solution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=316.1s	316.1	 not a training solution voluntarily putting his his face in a muzzle you know what I mean he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=322.1s	322.1	 doing that on his own I'm not forcing him to do anything that's force free dog training right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=325.4s	325.4	 there the idea then is to do that let go you know what I mean so this at least will give you the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=331.0s	331.0	 peace of mind in the event that you know if you are confronted with someone in public where he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=335.4s	335.4	 way over threshold and you didn't see it coming that you know you have a safety net in place and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=339.3s	339.3	 nibble on it so he can get used to having it on his face because it's a little off-putting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=342.9s	342.9	 have something on your face like that you're so good look at that nice work and then when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=348.6s	348.6	 finally do get to the point where you can strap it on you know and he's cool sit there and rapid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=353.1s	353.1	 fire tiny pieces of turkey at him to let him know look wow look what happens when you keep this thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=357.9s	357.9	 on you know you want it to be as normal as putting on his collar where he's like okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=361.3s	361.3	 practicing in public in a variety of contexts is the only way to get a dog to generalize how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=366.5s	366.5	 behave everywhere and that's why it takes months that was a fun interesting appointment with Luke
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=370.8s	370.8	 he is such a good dog click thumbs up make sure you're subscribed to my channel are you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=375.0s	375.0	 following us on instagram and facebook yet if not i'll have the links below we're super active
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=379.4s	379.4	 you'll love it and if you've got a new dog or you're new to training get a copy of my book too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOfNPODse0E&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=398&pp=iAQB&t=383.3s	383.3	 all those links will be in the description below all right see you guys next time
