https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Whoa
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=3.2s	3.2	 What are you all right yep, we can do this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=6.2s	6.2	 I'm a dog trainer today's episode is sponsored by Rover for $25 off your first booking visit Rover.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=12.8s	12.8	 Zach George and use promo code Zach George during checkout click thumbs up for Callie the four-month-old
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=18.0s	18.0	 Australian Shepherd puppy subscribe to my channel get a copy of my book follow us on Instagram and Facebook too for the full dog training revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=25.3s	25.3	 Experience does your puppy jump all over you and everybody they meet today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=29.2s	29.2	 I'm gonna show you three different ways to address this you're not very original puppies always chew my shoelaces
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=34.0s	34.0	 Don't you wish there was a way to have someone help you out with your dog when you're busy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=37.0s	37.0	 There's an app and a website for that if you don't always have the time to give your dog all the exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=41.6s	41.6	 They need Rover is a fantastic way to supplement their exercise. Hey, can you stop chewing my shoelace?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=47.0s	47.0	 Look at all these five-star reviews my favorite part though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 Is that you can read reviews and detailed descriptions of all of the walkers and sitters in your area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=54.8s	54.8	 There's a Laura five stars 30 reviews her clients are just very pleased with her service with Rover
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=60.6s	60.6	 You can find dog walkers who will take your dog out on a nice long walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=64.0s	64.0	 They'll even send you updates and photos so that you know exactly how the walk went people charge different prices, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=69.6s	69.6	 So you can find one that's within your budget
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=71.5s	71.5	 That's a clever feature Rover also has pet sitters who will take care of your dog in your home or theirs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=76.4s	76.4	 Whether you're leaving town for a week or you just want to drop your dog off for the day to get some social time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=80.8s	80.8	 You can search book and pay all within the app
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=83.2s	83.2	 But bottom line Rover makes it easier to improve your dog's quality of life for $25 off your first booking visit Rover.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=89.6s	89.6	 Slash Zach George and enter promo code Zach George when you check out. I'll have a link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=95.5s	95.5	 Why do you think puppies and dogs jump so much?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=98.5s	98.5	 Callie is an Australian Shepherd puppy and the ones who are energetic and eager to interact and take direction from people are the ones
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=105.2s	105.2	 We kept reading because traditionally we put that energy to good work in the fields now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=109.6s	109.6	 Most of us don't need our dogs to help us work anymore
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=112.0s	112.0	 But those genes that make them eager to work and play with us are still present and this of course has a side effect of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=118.1s	118.1	 Puppies that want to jump on you and engage you those characteristics are common with virtually all breeds though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=123.8s	123.8	 I mean puppies just like to greet us at the face. That's where all the action is we communicate with our eyes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=128.8s	128.8	 We make sounds with our mouths. I mean, it's no wonder that dogs want to get up to our level
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=133.0s	133.0	 But you guys are just too short, huh?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 So we've got two things going on here first many dogs have a surplus of energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=140.3s	140.3	 Next they really like interacting with us and you also like interacting with your leash apparently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=145.2s	145.2	 So let's cover a few things that you can do to get jumping under control over the next couple of weeks or so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=149.6s	149.6	 I mean you've got to address all of that excess energy before you can expect your dog to learn to greet you politely and stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=155.5s	155.5	 Jumping by providing regular exercise, especially early in the day and just before your dedicated training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=161.3s	161.3	 Your dog is more likely to be content
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=163.2s	163.2	 I like fetch because it allows you to get your dog's energy out on your terms and your schedule and it's the most efficient way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=169.8s	169.8	 To exercise a dog that I'm aware of for example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=172.2s	172.2	 If your dog is an exuberant jumper and they know a game of fetch you can easily deplete their energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=177.5s	177.5	 Say just a few minutes before company comes over when your dog is exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=181.6s	181.6	 This has the effect of getting them to be naturally more cooperative
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=185.0s	185.0	 Which in turn makes it easier to teach them how to behave way more effectively and that can be really handy with a dog like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=193.2s	193.2	 Of course there are other ways to exercise your dog too if they haven't yet learned a very proficient fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=197.6s	197.6	 Then you could take them on a nice long walk to get their energy out while exercise will make it a lot less likely that your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=203.3s	203.3	 Dog will jump what can you actually do to show them that you don't like it when they jump in dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=208.2s	208.2	 It's much better to show your dog what to do instead of what not to do the ideal way for a dog to greet a person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=214.2s	214.2	 Is to sit politely with all four of those paws on the ground in order to be pet now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=219.6s	219.6	 Of course some dogs get really excited when they get pet by a person for that reason you really have to practice your sit stays
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=226.0s	226.0	 With them while getting pets lots of dogs get excited when you break treats out as you can see Callie really wants this turkey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=232.4s	232.4	 I'm using today there. She is in her sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=234.3s	234.3	 I'm gonna give her a tiny piece of turkey there to let her know I like that and look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=237.6s	237.6	 I'm just scratching her right here on her neck. She's being good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=240.5s	240.5	 I'm gonna go ahead and give her a little treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=242.3s	242.3	 But really when you're teaching a young puppy like this not to jump it comes down to getting them used to being touched
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=248.1s	248.1	 So they don't tend to get super excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=250.3s	250.3	 It's not that special for them to be pet and using treats in the beginning like this is such a wonderful way to give you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=256.6s	256.6	 A head start on motivating your dog to listen to you, but as the behavior becomes habitualized over time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=262.4s	262.4	 Then you don't have to use the treats. I'm watching all of these paws if one of those paws comes up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=266.9s	266.9	 I'm gonna withhold the reward immediately put her back into a sit or lie down if she's more comfortable with that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=271.4s	271.4	 I wanted to know that no matter how playful I'm being with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=273.7s	273.7	 I want to pet her and I don't want her to jump on me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=276.4s	276.4	 She's doing really well with me on the ground, but I'm still really close to her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=279.7s	279.7	 So she's less likely to want to jump on me. Oh, look at that. That was awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=283.4s	283.4	 She came right up to me and she sat now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=285.6s	285.6	 Let me see if I can get a few instances here being able to pet her without her jumping on me without me having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=290.2s	290.2	 To treat her good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=292.0s	292.0	 Yes, you're a good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=294.1s	294.1	 What's up? Good girl. I think I'll go ahead and give her a treat there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=297.2s	297.2	 That was like three times. I was able to pet her pretty enthusiastically and she didn't jump on me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=301.6s	301.6	 We're tempted when we're training dogs to wait till they screw up and start jumping on us when we don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=306.5s	306.5	 To then discipline them and say hey stop doing that, but you really have to be one step ahead of your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=311.6s	311.6	 I mean after all you are a person right you're able to anticipate what your dog's going to do because no one knows them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=316.9s	316.9	 Like you your training strategy is handled in two main ways when you're showing your dog how to behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=321.8s	321.8	 Number one set up training sessions when your dog isn't in a super excited state
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=326.8s	326.8	 Secondly rehearse situations like coming home from work by pretending to come home or maybe when you come home from the store be prepared
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=333.0s	333.0	 To dedicate five minutes to exclusively focusing on your dog rather than quickly addressing them and moving on with other things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=339.8s	339.8	 so it's important to set up primary training sessions and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=343.0s	343.0	 Primary training sessions that surprise your dog and also secondary training sessions when jumping organically occurs when you don't want it to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=350.8s	350.8	 This is all great when your dog is jumping on you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=352.7s	352.7	 It's much easier to control that than teaching them not to jump on other people isn't it? So how do we handle that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=358.3s	358.3	 Control their environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=359.9s	359.9	 I mean it's important to have a puppy on leash for the first many months of training for a variety of reasons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=364.7s	364.7	 Not the least of which is teaching them how not to jump
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=367.9s	367.9	 This is pretty hard for a lot of puppies, especially when they're engaging somebody new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=371.7s	371.7	 I mean, they're really excited and they're just doing what comes natural if you're okay. Oh, you can't do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=376.9s	376.9	 But you see I mean just the introduction of someone that she's not been interacting with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=381.0s	381.0	 Makes her more likely to jump because she's like, oh, that's an exciting fun person right there and you're absolutely right about that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=386.7s	386.7	 You know, I'm gonna stay on the ground here. I'm gonna put Callie into a sit excellent job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=391.3s	391.3	 So Brianna, would you mind just petting her very briefly and lightly maybe under the chin right here? Sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=399.1s	399.1	 Sit right there her one of her feet came off the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=402.2s	402.2	 I didn't like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=403.0s	403.0	 So I'm gonna redirect her into a sit keep that training bubble small as the closer you are to your dog the more likely they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=408.4s	408.4	 Are to acknowledge you I'm trying to time my rewards to not even give her a chance to start jumping in other words letting her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=414.6s	414.6	 Know whoa all four feet are on the ground. I'm gonna reward that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=417.7s	417.7	 Yes, good girl. I don't mind so much that she came up, but she didn't jump. So that's good. Nice work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=423.8s	423.8	 Yes, that was a really good one. She was able to pet her for like a second and a half now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=427.8s	427.8	 I've been on the ground this whole time. So now let me see if I can rehearse something. That's a little more realistic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=432.4s	432.4	 For example, maybe you're on a walk and you see a neighbor. Hello neighbor. Oh, hi. Oh see right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=437.2s	437.2	 She wanted to jump that's very normal for puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=439.4s	439.4	 I'm gonna redirect her put her into a sit and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=441.5s	441.5	 Again, I'm gonna stay kind of close to her the important thing to remember is ultimately it's your responsibility as your dog's primary teacher
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=448.7s	448.7	 To teach them how not to jump don't delegate too much training to the person who's helping you or the neighbor you run into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=454.9s	454.9	 It's your job to communicate stay don't jump, please. Hi Kelly. How are you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=462.2s	462.2	 Good work, you're doing a great job playing the neighbor. I am actually a neighbor. Whoa, I love dogs. Hi. I love you good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=470.1s	470.1	 Let go over good. I'm gonna go ahead and reinforce the behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=473.5s	473.5	 It's really good if you can get someone to help you out with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=475.6s	475.6	 But even if you just have to rely on teaching this organically in day-to-day situations, you'll be in good shape
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=480.9s	480.9	 Sometimes though I've noticed that when you're trying to teach your dog not to jump and you're encountering a major dog lover
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=486.5s	486.5	 They're like, I don't care if the puppy jumps. I love dogs so much. Hello puppy. I love it when puppies jump over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=494.1s	494.1	 So if you do get someone like that, feel free to intervene
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=497.1s	497.1	 It's okay to politely get in between your dog and the person redirect them into a sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=501.4s	501.4	 Right and then ask the person to resume petting them. Go ahead. Okay, I'll pet you again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=508.9s	508.9	 If you have to escort them that's alright good job sit, please. Thank you. But after all it is your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=514.9s	514.9	 You are the one who's accountable for teaching them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=517.3s	517.3	 You can't really delegate teaching duties to the person that they're jumping on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=521.1s	521.1	 You know what?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=521.5s	521.5	 I mean if you're holding your dog and you're trying to train your dog while talking to your neighbor at the same time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=526.3s	526.3	 That doesn't really cut it, especially if your dog is new to training. So you pretty much have to say sorry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=530.8s	530.8	 I'm training my dog right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=532.3s	532.3	 Thank you for helping me out and I'm gonna give her my attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=534.8s	534.8	 It's unlikely that you're ever gonna meet a neighbor or someone in public who's acting this ridiculous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=540.6s	540.6	 At least you'll know that you've done the training required to get your dog to hold a sit-stay in such an exciting scenario
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=547.8s	547.8	 exercise lots of tolerance and understand that puppies just need to be taught not punished for jumping by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=553.4s	553.4	 Exercising your dog actively teaching them how to greet others and making sure that you manage your dog's surroundings by having them on leash in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=560.6s	560.6	 Situations where they're likely to jump you'll have this resolved in no time at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=564.2s	564.2	 Okay, it might take a little bit of time get $25 off your first booking with Rover by going to Rover comm slash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=570.3s	570.3	 Zach George and entering promo code Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=573.1s	573.1	 I'll have that link in the description click thumbs up for Callie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=575.8s	575.8	 If you think she did a great job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=577.0s	577.0	 Make sure you're subscribed to my channel follow us on Instagram and Facebook too and pick up a copy of my book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=582.6s	582.6	 I'll have all those links below in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWgzj9JFCSI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=402&pp=iAQB&t=585.1s	585.1	 Callie you're awesome. What you guys in the next video?
