https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi, I'm Zach remember me. I'm the guy who gives you treats sometimes this episode is sponsored by pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=6.3s	6.3	 Did you know that pet flow donates a bowl of food to a homeless pet for every single order that they ship and they do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=11.6s	11.6	 This while making your life way more convenient by saving you dozens of trips to the store every year change the way you buy your pets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=18.3s	18.3	 Food go to pet flow comm slash Zach George that links gonna be below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=22.0s	22.0	 Choose your favorite brand of food and tell pet flow how often you want it delivered
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=26.5s	26.5	 That's all there is to it and you'll save $10 off your first three orders when you enter code Zach 30 at checkout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 Click thumbs up for Rex and dogs everywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=35.1s	35.1	 Make sure you're subscribed to my channel too and get a copy of my best-selling book dog training revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=40.1s	40.1	 Today's video isn't quite as clear-cut as you might think see neutering is the process of removing all or part of a dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=47.1s	47.1	 Reproductive organs so that they can't reproduce the term neuter actually applies to both
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=52.1s	52.1	 Sexes while the term spay that applies to females and castrate to males neutering is the most common form of sexual
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=59.5s	59.5	 Sterilization for animals now the question of whether or when to neuter a dog. Well, it's gotten a lot more complicated than it used to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=66.1s	66.1	 There's no question that there's a huge overpopulation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=69.2s	69.2	 problem with pets here in the United States and in other places around the world and here in America at least about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=75.1s	75.1	 Half of dogs that enter shelters are euthanized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=78.5s	78.5	 Neutering dogs is one way to guarantee that any individual dog won't contribute to this problem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=83.6s	83.6	 And for that reason it makes sense for shelters to neuter dogs who are being adopted out to unknown families with unknown levels of responsibility
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=90.7s	90.7	 For the overall welfare of more dogs everywhere. Let's be clear. This is not a dog problem. This is very much a people problem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=98.0s	98.0	 It's our responsibility to make sure that our dogs are not roaming and having unplanned litters
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=102.5s	102.5	 The only people who should be breeding dogs are qualified
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=106.0s	106.0	 Responsible and ethical breeders from the health perspective though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=109.2s	109.2	 There's still a lot we need to learn about both a positive and the negative effects of neutering your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=114.1s	114.1	 The thing is the science is far from nailed down on how neutering is going to affect dogs in the long run
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=119.3s	119.3	 But if you already have your pet and you're trying to decide whether or when to neuter them at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 More data is pointing to the fact that it might be better to wait until they reach physical maturity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=127.9s	127.9	 Many studies have been attempted to look at the health risks and benefits of neutering a dog and so far
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=132.9s	132.9	 It looks like there's both risks and benefits to consider so think about it when you're neutering a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=137.3s	137.3	 You're removing an entire organ now most organs serve more than one function
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 So in the case of these reproductive organs, they secrete hormones among other things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=146.0s	146.0	 So while disabling the ability for a dog to reproduce we could also be disrupting other biological processes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=151.7s	151.7	 Neutering dogs appears to reduce or completely eliminate the risk for many diseases including some cancers and infections
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=158.4s	158.4	 Which could be fatal for example since the uterus and ovaries are removed in a traditional spay spayed females are not at risk for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=165.3s	165.3	 Piyometra a common life-threatening infection of the uterus or uterine or ovarian cancers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=170.4s	170.4	 Similarly neutered males are prevented from ever developing testicular cancer because well, they don't have testicles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=176.1s	176.1	 however other studies from the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association have linked neutering with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=181.3s	181.3	 increased risk of other types of cancers and diseases
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=184.6s	184.6	 Including bone and blood vessel cancers ligament injuries hip dysplasia and cognitive impairment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 Neutering does seem to help the overpopulation problem that we have but it may or may not have long-term health effects on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=196.8s	196.8	 Individual dogs it seems that all of this research is pointing out how much we actually don't know about this topic more than what we do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 Know so how does neutering affect your dog behaviorally speaking?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=206.3s	206.3	 I mean does it calm them down keep them from running away or help with potty accidents from a behavior perspective results
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=211.6s	211.6	 So far are ambiguous on both sides of the fence when it comes to behavior changes after neutering the way a dog behaves as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=217.8s	217.8	 Combination of their genetics their overall life experience and their environment and while neutering does seem to affect some behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=224.4s	224.4	 Specifically those related to sex there is nothing to suggest that it will dramatically change their overall personality or behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=231.2s	231.2	 Neutering is not a magic answer if you want to resolve behavioral issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=234.7s	234.7	 You're gonna have to really focus on training that said a study from the UC Davis veterinary medical teaching hospital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=240.8s	240.8	 Found that after being neutered many male dogs show reduction in roaming marking and mounting behavior specifically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=247.2s	247.2	 But neutering your dog in and of itself isn't going to keep your dog from running away or having accidents in the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=252.5s	252.5	 It's up to you to teach that even if you were to notice that your dog did seem more calm after being neutered
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=257.6s	257.6	 There are other factors that contribute far more greatly to a dog behaving more calmly and acceptably like learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=263.6s	263.6	 What's expected of them maturing and having more life experience?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=267.0s	267.0	 Overall it's important to remember that most of these behavior and medical studies are done on household pets who have countless other factors in their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=274.0s	274.0	 Lives not the least of which are lifestyle diet and their individual genetics and those could contribute to both medical and behavioral
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=281.2s	281.2	 Changes whether or not a dog is neutered studies about neutering dogs really need to be improved before we can begin to understand their long-term
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=288.4s	288.4	 Effects in more detail most of these studies to have small sample sizes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=292.5s	292.5	 Which could lead to statistically significant results where there aren't any with the broad population of dogs and the way they calculate the results is often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=299.8s	299.8	 Subject to a built-in selection bias of course one of the huge benefits to having a dog that's neutered is it's easier to participate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=306.8s	306.8	 Socially with your dog at places like dog parks or doggie daycares or play groups because there's still so much to learn about the long-term
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 Effects it's important that you do your own research
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=315.7s	315.7	 Talk to veterinary professionals you trust and draw your own conclusions about the best time if any to neuter your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=322.3s	322.3	 Understand though if you decide not to neuter your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=324.8s	324.8	 You're also making the commitment that your dog is not gonna be part of the huge pet overpopulation problem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=330.9s	330.9	 We have that's a huge commitment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=332.9s	332.9	 This is an issue that so many people are really passionate about and there are so many things to consider
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=337.6s	337.6	 But what do you think tell me in the comments below click thumbs up for Rex make sure you're subscribed to my channel pick up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=343.2s	343.2	 A copy of my book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=344.0s	344.0	 Thank you so much to our patrons on patreon for supporting content like this and don't forget to set up automatic pet food delivery to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=350.5s	350.5	 Make your life easier enter code Zach 30 when you check out and you'll get $10 off your first three orders at pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jlr-XQtjAJk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=421&pp=iAQB&t=356.6s	356.6	 Link will be in the description. Thank you for joining me today, sir
