https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is sponsored by Pet Flow and supported by our patrons on Patreon. Thank you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=4.7s	4.7	 Click thumbs up for Rue the puppy who's my co-host today. Subscribe to my channel and check out our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=9.4s	9.4	 new t-shirts on Teespring. I know you're gonna love them. I'll have a link below. There's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=13.4s	13.4	 lot of confusion as to what qualifies as a service dog and the differences between a service dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 a therapy dog, and an emotional support animal. Today we're going to talk about all three of those.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=23.4s	23.4	 Service dogs can definitely make life easier for those that need them, but we can all make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=27.5s	27.5	 our lives easier by having our pet's food automatically shipped to us from Pet Flow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=31.4s	31.4	 They can literally take care of that chore for you every month as many times as you'd like.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=36.2s	36.2	 Say every two weeks for example. Just choose your dog's favorite food one time and tell them how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=41.0s	41.0	 often you want it delivered. Enter code ZACH30 when you check out and you'll get $10 off your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=45.3s	45.3	 first three orders. I'll have a link and all the details in the description below. Simply put,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=49.5s	49.5	 a service dog is a dog that's been individually trained to perform tasks for someone with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=54.2s	54.2	 disability. Service dogs can be any size or any breed. In the U.S. there's no requirement for any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=59.6s	59.6	 type of certification, ID, or other paperwork. The only thing that makes a service dog a service
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=64.4s	64.4	 dog is their training. In order to qualify for a service dog, you have to have a condition which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=68.8s	68.8	 significantly limits or makes you completely unable to complete daily life activities. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=73.9s	73.9	 best person to determine whether you're disabled by a medical condition and if a service dog is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=78.4s	78.4	 good idea for you is your doctor. Because each individual with a disability is going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=82.6s	82.6	 slightly different, service dogs end up being custom trained to their handler's unique needs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 At least one study has concluded that those who have a service dog actually have an improved
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 social life because of their service dog. The study defined that as more friendly glances and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=96.6s	96.6	 conversations and more smiles directed towards their handler. Of course, in my experience,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=100.7s	100.7	 this is pretty much true with any dog that you take in public. I mean, maybe just having a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=105.3s	105.3	 is what makes you have a better social life. I mean, I've got three dogs and actually I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=109.6s	109.6	 have much of a social life at all. Speaking of taking them in public, the rules for public access
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=115.1s	115.1	 with service dogs are different from country to country. I'm going to have a link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=119.2s	119.2	 regarding the laws in your country. In America, the Americans with Disabilities Act states that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=123.8s	123.8	 state and local governments, businesses, and nonprofit organizations that serve the public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=128.8s	128.8	 generally must allow service animals to accompany people with disabilities in all areas of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=134.2s	134.2	 facility where the public is normally allowed to go. The only two questions that staff of places
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=139.2s	139.2	 accessible to the public can ask are one, is that a service dog required because of a disability?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=144.8s	144.8	 And two, what tasks does the dog perform? That's it. They can't ask for documentation or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=149.7s	149.7	 identification, nor can they inquire further about the person's disability or the dog's training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=154.3s	154.3	 However, just because there's no formal certifications doesn't mean you should take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=157.9s	157.9	 advantage of this and start taking your dog everywhere if they're not a legitimate service
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=162.1s	162.1	 dog. Not only do businesses have the right to ask you to leave if your dog isn't under control,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=166.3s	166.3	 whether they're a service dog or not, but also poorly behaved dogs can create a bad reputation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=170.9s	170.9	 for legitimate service dogs. The federal definition as outlined by the Americans with Disabilities
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=175.9s	175.9	 Act has been specifically revised to exclude animals whose sole purpose it is to provide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=181.8s	181.8	 comfort or emotional support. See, these animals are known as emotional support animals.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 Emotional support animals are allowed to live in no pet housing and go on airplanes. You can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=192.5s	192.5	 the Fair Housing Act and the Air Carrier Access Act for more information on this. However,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=196.6s	196.6	 outside of that, emotional support animals don't have public access rights because they're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=201.0s	201.0	 covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act. So what about therapy dogs? I mean, therapy dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=205.5s	205.5	 can often be confused with service dogs. Therapy dogs go to places like hospitals, schools, nursing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=210.8s	210.8	 homes, and all kinds of places to give comfort to people who could benefit from experiencing some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=215.4s	215.4	 extra love from a dog. Remember, therapy dogs are not service dogs and they're excluded under the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=220.2s	220.2	 Americans with Disabilities Act. Do lots of research to make sure that getting a service
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=224.4s	224.4	 dog is the right decision because it's an enormous commitment and it'll make a huge change to your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=229.0s	229.0	 daily lifestyle too. Click thumbs up for Roo. He did a great job today. Make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=233.4s	233.4	 to my channel. Get Your Dog's Food automatically shipped to you from Pep Flow. Pick up a copy of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=237.1s	237.1	 my best-selling book. Check out our new t-shirts on Teespring as well. All of those details in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4C459sQwrAo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=426&pp=iAQB&t=241.9s	241.9	 the description below. Good job, Roo.
