https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 So funny look at that he's fooled by the Boston Terrier Momo that used to be a real dog that I was training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=5.2s	5.2	 He didn't listen to me too. Well, so I turned him to stone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=8.8s	8.8	 Today's episode is sponsored by furbo enter promo code furbozak for $15 off your new furbo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=15.4s	15.4	 Click thumbs up for Momo the five month old American Eskimo dog and my dogs Alpha Centauri and Indiana
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=21.9s	21.9	 Subscribe to my channel for all of your dog training needs to we've got the furbo and I've been challenged to put it to the test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=27.5s	27.5	 Today I'm gonna be working with three different dogs and I'll be giving you some tips on how to teach your dog to listen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=32.6s	32.6	 To you stop barking and just generally behave when you're away from home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=36.6s	36.6	 Furbo is an AI powered dog camera that lets you check in and see your dog anytime you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=42.1s	42.1	 Everything you need comes right in the box. They even give you a sample of treats, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=45.9s	45.9	 It's like really on there now. It's super easy to set up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 You just download the app which is free plug in the furbo it connects your Wi-Fi and then your phone finds it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=54.2s	54.2	 Automatically and you're connected to your dog 24 7
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=57.0s	57.0	 We are gonna have a ton of fun with this you just tap this right there, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=61.7s	61.7	 so then it sends a signal to the furbo and then it's supposed to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=66.2s	66.2	 There's legitimately a dog treat inside of my shirt right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=69.4s	69.4	 This really allows you to engage and interact with your dog in a way that I've never done before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=74.0s	74.0	 It's got a super wide angle so you can see a giant room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=77.5s	77.5	 The first thing we have to do is teach the dogs that the sound that the furbo makes means that they're about to get a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=82.5s	82.5	 Treat now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=83.0s	83.0	 You don't want to just jump into shooting treats at your dog through the furbo because you want to get them used to the sound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 And used to this whole concept so I'm gonna make sure that this is empty during this process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=92.3s	92.3	 And I'm just tossing them kind of mimicking what the furbo will do right there good job. Okay so far so good to be clear here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=98.9s	98.9	 I'm not asking Indy to do anything. I'm just letting her know that that sound means that she is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=104.7s	104.7	 Getting a treat once you get your dog to make this association
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=108.3s	108.3	 Then you can work up to being able to reward them with this when you're away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=111.7s	111.7	 I'm excited about the potential of this because it could be great for things like diagnosing separation anxiety addressing excessive barking or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=118.8s	118.8	 Destructive chewing while you're away or just generally refining communication between you and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=124.0s	124.0	 Anything that helps with that is a winner to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=125.8s	125.8	 I think all of the dogs have made the association that the sound the furbo makes means they're getting a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=131.0s	131.0	 So let's move on to the real thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=133.3s	133.3	 Look at that, and you can see the second he hears that noise. He's like what is that? I think I know what's coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=139.7s	139.7	 It's clear that he's made the connection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=142.5s	142.5	 Yeah, look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=145.9s	145.9	 Beware this is extremely addictive you can put a variety of different treats in there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=150.5s	150.5	 You could even put your dog's kibble in there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=152.2s	152.2	 So I would say if you're planning on using it a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=154.7s	154.7	 Maybe put half a meal's worth of kibble in there even mix some treats in keeping your rewards random like that can really propel your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 Success you can put it up high like this and it has that nice downward angle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=165.5s	165.5	 So that you can still see the room and see your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=168.3s	168.3	 I'm gonna work with Indy a little bit through the furbo see if we can get her to sit lie down Indy come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=174.0s	174.0	 Lie down good. I love the lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=177.1s	177.1	 stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=180.8s	180.8	 Okay, good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=183.5s	183.5	 Before you can expect your dog to listen to you through the furbo though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=186.4s	186.4	 You need to take some time to teach them how to listen to your voice when it's coming through the speaker now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=191.1s	191.1	 This is my first time working with Indy on this. Look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=195.3s	195.3	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 To get your dog to really respond to the furbo reward them often while you are at home and working with a furbo as you would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=204.3s	204.3	 With normal training see you'll need to do this at length
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=206.9s	206.9	 So that it really becomes part of their life and they really associate the furbo with you and training lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=214.6s	214.6	 Yes, really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=216.4s	216.4	 So I'm getting a really used to lying down and getting the rewards from the furbo over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=221.6s	221.6	 My goal here is to see if I can work up to getting Indy to lie down while I make my way outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=226.4s	226.4	 This is the only camera that's actually designed for dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=229.6s	229.6	 So they consulted with and considered the views of thousands of trainers vets and everyday people and their dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=234.5s	234.5	 It has smart dog alerts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 Which will let you know when your dog is chewing pacing back and forth or playing with another dog the more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=240.7s	240.7	 Experience furbo has watching your dog the smarter it gets I've got Indy on the app here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=245.2s	245.2	 And I'm gonna see if I can get her to lie down. She's walking around right here. Indy. Come here girl. So look right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=250.9s	250.9	 I just asked her to come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=253.4s	253.4	 Good okay, that's excellent Indy right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=257.0s	257.0	 She looks so I'm gonna go ahead and toss a treat out to her for looking up towards the camera Indy lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=265.3s	265.3	 And look you can see her attention is on me still I like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=268.1s	268.1	 I'm gonna go ahead and reward for the additional attention looks like she's thinking about lying down. Yes. Yes. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=274.1s	274.1	 That's pretty awesome. I am pretty impressed with Indy today. She's doing a good job while you can use the furbo for training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=280.4s	280.4	 While you can use the furbo for training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=281.9s	281.9	 It's also kind of great to be able to peek in on your dog and say hey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=284.6s	284.6	 I want to give you a treat just cuz I'm thinking about you if your dog starts barking while you're away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=288.6s	288.6	 You'll get a bark alert notification. Let's test it speak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=293.3s	293.3	 Good and you can hear I mean straight away there we got the bark alert speak. Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=299.8s	299.8	 Look at that. Your dog is barking each time. That's so funny Indy speak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 There it is right there. See it. So right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=308.5s	308.5	 We can see what's going on it connects to the furbo and there we are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 Well, it's great to know when your dog is barking the path to resolving unwanted barking isn't by correcting them when they start barking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=319.0s	319.0	 It's about rewarding them when they are behaving quietly and this is where the furbo really shines to stop your dog from barking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=325.3s	325.3	 This is what you do give them vigorous age-appropriate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=328.0s	328.0	 Exercise just before leaving them so that they're more likely to be calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=332.3s	332.3	 Naturally while you're away and check in with them throughout the day and when you notice that they're behaving calmly go ahead and reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=338.0s	338.0	 Them through the furbo over time. They'll begin to make the association that hey when I'm just relaxing here being good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=344.7s	344.7	 That thing gives me a treat. This is a principle called capturing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=348.2s	348.2	 That's where you catch your dog doing something that you like when they're just doing it naturally and acknowledge it by providing a favorable outcome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=354.3s	354.3	 To the action like shooting treats out of a furbo if you can get really good at capturing your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=359.1s	359.1	 Just be in chill you can even help prevent things like chewing some cases of anxiety and other unwanted behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=364.9s	364.9	 It even has night vision so you can easily see in the dark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=367.5s	367.5	 But now remember if your dog's barking is well established you first need to get control of their barking in person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=373.4s	373.4	 I'm gonna have some of my best how to teach your dog to stop barking videos in the description of this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=378.1s	378.1	 Once again the promo code furbo Zach will give you $15 off the very awesome furbo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=383.6s	383.6	 Check the description for the link and promo code click thumbs up for Momo Alpha Centauri and Indiana Jones
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=389.5s	389.5	 Furbo is a wonderful way to complement your training and stay in touch with your dog so that you can know what they're up to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=394.8s	394.8	 At any time we'll see you guys in the next video good job Momo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cLgxezxZtlg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=431&pp=iAQB&t=400.5s	400.5	 He's demanding the furbo give her treats look at her
