https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Oh, no, what do you do? You can't just take them out of here. That was really greedy of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=5.7s	5.7	 You're acting like a pig. You also sound like one too. Am I gonna sound like that your whole life?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=10.0s	10.0	 Thank you Rover for sponsoring this video. I'm hanging out with stitch the French Bulldog today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=14.4s	14.4	 We're doing some training having a good time. Who's got ears like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=17.7s	17.7	 I mean look at those give him a thumbs up and make sure you're subscribed to my channel, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 There's no getting around it having a dog requires a ton of your time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 But does being busy mean you shouldn't have a dog at all or is it possible to raise a well-adjusted dog if you're a busy person?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 I'm gonna give you some advice today on what to do if you're really busy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=34.8s	34.8	 But you're still confident that you can provide a great life for your dog stitches off to a good start on this training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=40.2s	40.2	 Let's see what he's learned so far and maybe we can teach him some new stuff, too. Look at this sock. Oh, yeah, so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=46.7s	46.7	 Look at this. Oh, that's fun
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 The newer your dog is to their home the more time and attention they're going to require throughout the day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=53.1s	53.1	 So oftentimes you're gonna need to make special arrangements, especially if you've got a younger dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=57.5s	57.5	 Where did that athleticism come from routine is so important when you're raising a dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=61.9s	61.9	 But if you're a busy person, sometimes it's hard to keep a routine. That's also convenient for you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=66.6s	66.6	 You are gifted at tug-of-war. Do you know that technology is giving us so many more options?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=71.4s	71.4	 I mean think about it. You can get a ride anywhere anytime
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=74.3s	74.3	 It's effortless to have almost anything you want delivered right to you and now solving two of the biggest issues that I come across
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=80.7s	80.7	 Not enough exercise and too much time alone is within reach because of one app Rover is a service that offers dog-sitting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=88.2s	88.2	 Walking home visits daycare and boarding all in one quick convenient place within the app or on their website
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=94.6s	94.6	 And by the way, the app has a 4.6 star rating in the app store. It's a good app
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=99.0s	99.0	 You can see all of the different options right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=101.6s	101.6	 You can do dog boarding house sitting drop-in visits doggie daycare dog walking all sorts of stuff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=106.8s	106.8	 This is what makes Rover special though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=108.3s	108.3	 You hand select the people you think are right for your dog by reading reviews and other people's experiences
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=114.3s	114.3	 Let's say you want someone to walk your dog here. We can tap dog walking. There's a lot of different people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=119.0s	119.0	 So you want to select someone who has lots of reviews and who gets good reviews? Let's check out Chuck over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=124.3s	124.3	 He's got 11 reviews five stars. That sounds like a good place to start. He tells you what his particular skills are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=130.5s	130.5	 He's good at providing exercise. He's got senior dog experience. You can get a little perspective by reading his bio here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=136.6s	136.6	 And you get all of those services at the touch of a touchscreen right within the app
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=141.0s	141.0	 So this makes it a lot easier to narrow down the best people for your dog before I leave anyone alone with my dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=147.2s	147.2	 I've got to talk to them about my dogs individual qualities and their quirks so that they can take those into account
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=152.3s	152.3	 For example, maybe your dog is scared of big trucks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=154.6s	154.6	 So they all need to know to avoid busy roads or maybe you've got two dogs and one loves to play fetch and the other is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=159.9s	159.9	 Just a total couch potato. You kind of look like a potato
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=163.0s	163.0	 You can set up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=164.4s	164.4	 Unlimited meet-and-greets with pet sitters and walkers from Rover and talk to them to make sure that they're right for your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 And that you're both on the same page
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 You'll want to ask them lots of questions read the reviews and only hire them if you feel incredible about them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=177.8s	177.8	 You want someone who's gonna treat your dog as their own and Rover is making it easier than ever to find that very important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=184.6s	184.6	 special person to care for your dog giving dogs regular walks and outside time is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=189.9s	189.9	 Fantastic way to curb unwanted behaviors like unwanted barking or excessive chewing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=194.5s	194.5	 So go to Rover's website or download the app create an account and make a booking check the description for a direct link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=200.6s	200.6	 There's no doubt that if you're busy, it can be more complicated raising a dog. Let's see how your sit looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=205.9s	205.9	 So let's cover some additional tips that will make keeping your job and keeping your dog happy at the same time much easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=212.8s	212.8	 How about your down stitch will do everything but I'm treating them every single time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=216.9s	216.9	 Let's see if we can get them to do a number of those things without me having to reward every time down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=222.5s	222.5	 Good if you have to leave your dog alone for more than four to five hours at a time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=226.5s	226.5	 Then it's a really good idea to get up extra early to give your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 Significant age appropriate exercise just before leaving. I got him to do lots of things in a row
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 That's what you want to do with your dog as they start to prove that they understand stuff makes sense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=240.0s	240.0	 If you get all of that overflowing energy out of your dog before you leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=243.6s	243.6	 They're a lot more likely to be content and well behaved while you're gone and they'll be a lot less likely to become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=249.5s	249.5	 Destructive or bark excessively. Let's see how his leave it training looks good impulse control seven months on this planet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=255.6s	255.6	 And as much as he loves treats, he's mostly leaving it alone. It's important to optimize your time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=261.5s	261.5	 So when you do have some free time schedule your social events around places that you can involve your dog or take your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=267.2s	267.2	 For example, maybe a dog friendly bar a park or a festival go out of your way to do this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 I mean seriously this will go a long way to making your dog happier and ensuring that they're well socialized and well adjusted dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=279.2s	279.2	 Let's see if you know shape. Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=282.0s	282.0	 Look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=283.6s	283.6	 Yes, I want the other hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=287.5s	287.5	 Yes, that is YouTube worthy right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=290.1s	290.1	 buddy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=290.3s	290.3	 If you do happen to have one or two extra days off during the week schedule an extra active day for your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=296.2s	296.2	 For example when my three border colleagues were at their peak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=299.2s	299.2	 I might extend their frisbee training session one day or make a half day of going to the park with them if I knew I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=305.1s	305.1	 Was gonna be busy that week or if I knew that weather was gonna be bad for the next few days like people a properly maintained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=311.4s	311.4	 Athletic dog is going to need recovery time and for you that equals better behavior while you're gone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=316.7s	316.7	 In fact, this could give you an extra one to two days per week of low maintenance dog raising as they recover from that heavy exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=323.2s	323.2	 Day, let's see if we can learn something new. Oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=325.5s	325.5	 Oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=326.7s	326.7	 Look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=327.5s	327.5	 If you have a roommate or a significant other who's helping out with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=330.5s	330.5	 Make sure that you guys are both on the same page relating to your dog's routine so that your dog barely misses you while you're gone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=337.0s	337.0	 You can see the extra effort that time. Of course, ultimately, it's your responsibility to raise train and care for your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=343.5s	343.5	 Can you spin? Oh, there we go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=345.5s	345.5	 If you've weighed all the pros and cons and determine that you're probably too busy for a dog then wait until life slows down a bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=351.2s	351.2	 But if you're prepared to dedicate the time to your dog and you just need a little bit of extra help from time to time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=355.7s	355.7	 Then go for it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=356.8s	356.8	 If you want to optimize your dog's success and their happiness go to Rover's website or download the app create an account and make a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=362.9s	362.9	 Booking check the description for a direct link. I'll have the details in the description click thumbs up for stitch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=367.9s	367.9	 He did a great job today and make sure you're subscribed to my channel. I'm so proud of stitch. What a good boy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjok7uQdVjs&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=440&pp=iAQB&t=372.6s	372.6	 He is. I'll see you next time. Good job stitch
