https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 We are waiting for Monty, the old English Bulldog, to come by and I'm gonna check him out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=5.7s	5.7	 see if he might be right for a video, and if he's not, I get to play with him at least,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=9.4s	9.4	 so that'll be fun. Oh man, look at that funny mouth of yours. Get that alien. Do you want that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=14.9s	14.9	 alien? This is Monty, the old English Bulldog. There's that tug-of-war. Oh, that's a good tug.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=22.1s	22.1	 Oh man, I can't remember the last time I played tug-of-war with an old English Bulldog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=26.9s	26.9	 Looks like he likes the UFO toy. The thing about brachycephalic dogs, especially here in New
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=31.5s	31.5	 Orleans in the south where it can be really hot, is you have to be very proactive about keeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=35.4s	35.4	 them cool and making sure they don't overheat. Monty's about seven years old. You're kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=40.4s	40.4	 ugly too, you know, in a good way. They're kind of ugly, aren't they? Let's see how responsive you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=45.4s	45.4	 are to tree- Oh, you know, it's not a wave. I like that. Sit. Good. Here you go. Good work. Right,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=53.0s	53.0	 leave it. Yes, good job. I love your leave it. Look at me. Good. Let's try that again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 Nice work. Here you go. All right, so he's really responsive. He seems like just a generally good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=67.8s	67.8	 dog. What do you guys think about Monty, the old English Bulldog? He's pretty cool. I'm still trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=72.9s	72.9	 to decide whether or not we want to do a video with him. I mean, there's some things we have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=76.4s	76.4	 consider. One of my concerns though is typically a shoot lasts, I don't know, anywhere between two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 and three hours. And since he is a older Brachycephalic dog, you know, with the smushed in faces,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=87.0s	87.0	 he tends to get out of breath pretty quick. And I want to make sure that if we did a video with him,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 that it wouldn't really challenge him too physically. The safety and wellbeing of dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=96.2s	96.2	 is always the most important thing when we make videos. But the good news is I've got a Doberman
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=101.4s	101.4	 coming over next, who's supposed to be really wild, like 80 pounds. And yeah, that should be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 interesting. Oh boy, you're strong. Whoa. That's it. That is a strong dog right there. You're such
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=121.8s	121.8	 a strong Doberman. But I love dogs that play tug. A dog that'll play tug, you can teach anything to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=128.6s	128.6	 You got to watch her aim though. I'm told her aim isn't ideal, so I'm going to be careful there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=134.3s	134.3	 Hey, natural ears. She is one quirky drinker. Look at her. Do you know how to let go?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=145.8s	145.8	 Let go. What a good, good girl. Have you taught her lie down? No, I have not.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=155.0s	155.0	 Go. Good girl. Nice work. Oh, you're so good with lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=160.0s	160.0	 Yeah. Will you get up? Come on. Yes. Oh, good. Leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=171.5s	171.5	 Yes. Good girl. Got a good leave it look at me combo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=177.0s	177.0	 She's sharp. Very sharp dog. I can't put anything faster. I just haven't had time to spend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=183.7s	183.7	 up here. Yes. Good luck. How about sit pretty?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 Oh, yeah. Yeah. She's sock. Yes. Will she retrieve? Oh, retrieve. I know. So get you. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=204.1s	204.1	 Oh, come on. Yes. Good girl. Hey, we could have a shot of you in the shower. Like help give me a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=214.7s	214.7	 towel. And then she brings it to you. There will be no shower shots. She's like, I want the toys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 please. Let go. Very nice. Didn't even have to hold it that time. All right. Let go. Do you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=232.1s	232.1	 this? Get it. It's okay. Get this interesting behavior she has of circling it to be seen when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=241.0s	241.0	 she's unsure and scratching indicating she's unsure. That type of scratching in that situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=247.8s	247.8	 often means that. What's that? Can we go back to fetching the towel? What's that? Yes. There you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=255.9s	255.9	 Let go. Can I have it? That's my shoe. Let go. I'm going to run some tests with Piper to see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=264.2s	264.2	 well she does with fetch in an outdoor environment. You can tell a lot about a dog by how well they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=269.2s	269.2	 perform outside versus inside. It makes a big difference. First, we're going to let her pee,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=274.4s	274.4	 I guess. Look at her. She goes right into that fetch immediately. I enjoy that or that tug rather.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=280.2s	280.2	 But her aim is off, so you got to be careful. Come on. Bring it to me. Good girl. That's it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=290.8s	290.8	 That's it. Oh, man. She's my fetch dog. Go get it. Yep. Saw that coming. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=300.9s	300.9	 Hi.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=307.8s	307.8	 Yes. We need to shoot a video with her when the weather cools down on fetch because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=314.4s	314.4	 her fetch is not very reliable, but it will be. She's got everything it takes. An ideal fetch.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=319.0s	319.0	 You throw a toy. They pick up the toy, immediately return back to you in a straight line without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=324.3s	324.3	 sniffing around, without any of that. Bring it back straight to you. Let go promptly. Let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=330.7s	330.7	 And then eagerly await the next throw. So she's close. Good. Let go. So what I recommend you do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 with her for fetch training in the meantime is keep your throws short to try and get the fundamentals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=343.3s	343.3	 good. Let go. And one on one. No other dogs. I'm just doing a test with Piper right now to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=349.0s	349.0	 how responsive she is to touching things. And I have this bell right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=355.0s	355.0	 Yes. I like that she's like thinking. Hey, come here. Yep. She's like confused a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=366.1s	366.1	 Yes. Good girl. That was good. What's this? Yes. Fine. Do you shake? Does she shake?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=374.4s	374.4	 I haven't seen her shake. Okay. What's this? I've had to. Touch it with your nose.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 Oh, there you go. That was good. Piper, Piper, come in. Yes. Yes. There you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=388.7s	388.7	 Piper just brought me this rope toy over here. I was using treats, but honestly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=393.0s	393.0	 it seems like she'd rather play tug of war than get treats. It's really important to honor your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=397.3s	397.3	 dog's currency, their preferred currency and what they prefer. So, I mean, there are a lot of dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=402.5s	402.5	 out there that would be much happier playing a five second game of tug of war after they do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=406.6s	406.6	 something well, than they would receiving a treat of some kind. She's a dual currency dog. She'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=412.5s	412.5	 work for both, but right now she seems to really be in the mood for play. So I think that's good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=417.9s	417.9	 Dogs that respond to play well are really easy to teach a variety of different things. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=423.8s	423.8	 I've got this treat right here in my hand. I bet she'll take it. Will you take it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=427.7s	427.7	 So she'll take it. Now, if she goes right back into playing tug of war that quickly after taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=432.2s	432.2	 a treat, that would indicate that she's dual currency. In other words, that she'll work for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=436.3s	436.3	 food and play in the same training session, not many minutes later. So she stopped playing tug.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=441.5s	441.5	 That could mean that she just forgotten about it, or it could mean that she's lost interest in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=445.7s	445.7	 playing. So let's see. Hey Piper, come here. And right into it. So that's a dual currency dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=450.9s	450.9	 in my opinion, because she's usually when dogs take treats, that tends to really dampen their desire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=456.1s	456.1	 to bite hard on things like this, but not Piper, not Piper at all. Good girl. Oh man, you're good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=463.9s	463.9	 Let go. Tug of war is like the ultimate currency. If you can really tame it and get it really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=470.9s	470.9	 structured. So tug and let go on the word let. Now that I've given Piper a thorough test, we have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=477.5s	477.5	 figure out what kind of video we're going to shoot with her. So that'll be fun. Piper, you're a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=481.8s	481.8	 girl. It was so nice meeting you. You're all business, huh? Do you guys like my Hollywood shirt?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=486.4s	486.4	 I just uploaded a video blog a few minutes ago, so we're going to go through some of the comments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=489.9s	489.9	 and just kind of respond to them. Katie Frank has an 11 week old puppy that is lower energy than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=496.4s	496.4	 she expected. She's wondering if that's normal. So typically when you get a puppy, a couple of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=501.9s	501.9	 things can happen. It can very often take two or three weeks, especially if you have a really young
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=507.7s	507.7	 puppy, for them to acclimate and get comfortable with being in their new environment. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=512.2s	512.2	 they've had so much go on in their life very recently that it's normal for them to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=517.1s	517.1	 an extended period of time, up to two, maybe even three weeks possibly, to come out of their shell.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=522.6s	522.6	 So I wouldn't worry too much about that. The other possibility is that you've just got a pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=526.9s	526.9	 chill, mellow dog and a lot of dogs are like that. Not all puppies are energetic and it's important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=531.3s	531.3	 to accept our dogs for who they are. Zane wants to know how do you discipline your dogs without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=537.2s	537.2	 being physical? I mean, it all depends on how you define discipline. I mean, if you're talking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=541.5s	541.5	 about discipline in the sense of I want my dog to be disciplined and exercise impulse control,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=546.9s	546.9	 well, that's just a matter of general training. We have to get over this notion that, oh, what do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=552.2s	552.2	 I do when my dog does something bad so I can correct them? Rather, we need to think, how do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=557.6s	557.6	 I prevent my dog from doing the thing that I know they're going to do before they do it? Example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=563.1s	563.1	 if you know you've got company coming over, you know your dog is likely to jump on them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=568.2s	568.2	 the proactive thing that you do is exercise them just before company comes over and make sure you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=573.8s	573.8	 have them on leash when company does come over and practice sit and stay, giving your dog your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=578.4s	578.4	 undivided attention and following the steps I go through in my videos on teaching your dog not to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=583.8s	583.8	 jump. Rainboo Unicorn says, my pug knows a lot of tricks, but I can't teach him to speak, to stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=590.1s	590.1	 begging or to stop leash pulling. My pug only barks at people because he wants to get pet,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=595.6s	595.6	 and sometimes other dogs, do you have any suggestions? Every time I give him a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=599.4s	599.4	 for barking, he won't do it again. Oh, boy. So I'd recommend that you see my playlist on how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=603.8s	603.8	 teach your dog the basics in order. I have thorough, thorough videos on every one of those topics.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=609.2s	609.2	 Good question, though. I don't want to marginalize your question. It's just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=614.2s	614.2	 there's a lot to say there. Viola wants to know how can I teach my dog to stop carrying on and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=619.4s	619.4	 barking at other dogs? I mean, a lot of us struggle with that, don't we? It's like, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=623.4s	623.4	 dogs are excited, especially if they're under exercise, they're more likely to be like, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=627.3s	627.3	 I want to play with you or I want to do something. I'm wild and crazy. So exercise is really the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=631.9s	631.9	 main thing you have to keep in mind there. I'd recommend that you see my leash walking playlist,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=636.0s	636.0	 which will give you many examples of how to get control of a wild dog on leash without using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=640.6s	640.6	 unnecessary force with them and to motivate them to want to do the behavior that you want. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=645.7s	645.7	 really what it's about. That's what it comes down to. Excellent question. We're going to continue to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYiWrPKUOFI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=447&pp=iAQB&t=649.1s	649.1	 make videos like this to see how you like them. We'll see you guys in the next one. Bye. Bye.
