https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by PepFlo. If you want better access to me, join our incredible Patreon community.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=5.2s	5.2	 It helps us make the best videos we can.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=7.6s	7.6	 Today, I'm going to show you how to teach your dog to understand English,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=10.9s	10.9	 ouch, or whatever language you want them to understand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=13.8s	13.8	 Click thumbs up for Clementine, the great Pyrenees-Ockbash mix.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=17.7s	17.7	 Those are two really giant breeds if you didn't know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=20.7s	20.7	 Your biting is out of control, you know that? You can't bite.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=24.1s	24.1	 You're the worst puppy biter I've had in at least three weeks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 If you're interested in teaching your dog to understand you better,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=29.4s	29.4	 subscribing to my channel will help you with that endeavor.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=32.2s	32.2	 That, combined with my book, will get you exactly where you need to be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=35.3s	35.3	 Anybody who keeps me from having to go out shopping is definitely speaking my language.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=39.3s	39.3	 You can and should have your dog's food shipped to you automatically every month from PepFlo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 It's effortless. PepFlo will take care of it for you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=46.2s	46.2	 Don't waste time if you don't have to. Just choose your favorite brand of food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 tell PepFlo how often you want it delivered, and enter code ZACH30 when you check out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=55.0s	55.0	 and you'll get $10 off your first three automatic shipments.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 Change the way you buy dog food and help us change the way people think about teaching dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 Clementine might look like she's half grown, but if you can believe it, she's only 12 weeks old.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=67.6s	67.6	 So she's got a lot of learning and a lot of growing ahead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=70.8s	70.8	 Can you please stop scratching at the carpet?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=73.0s	73.0	 Hey Clementine, you want to come over here and help me shoot a video?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=76.2s	76.2	 At first, it can feel really overwhelming trying to communicate with an animal who has basically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=80.8s	80.8	 no experience interacting with humans, but it's really not that hard to start teaching your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=85.7s	85.7	 or dog to understand your language.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 Today we're going to show Clementine what three different words mean.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=90.8s	90.8	 We're going to start with her name and then we're going to move on to some other fun stuff.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 When you say a puppy's name, what is it you actually want?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=98.1s	98.1	 It's their attention, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=99.4s	99.4	 In the early stages of teaching your dog their name, you want to reward for any attention they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 give you and mark it with a really special word. In this case, their name.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 You are rowdy. You need some training, seriously.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=111.7s	111.7	 Clementine is kind of a long name. Personally, I actually love giving long names to dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=116.5s	116.5	 but I tend to shorten my own dog's names and give them various nicknames.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 For example, my dog Alpha Centauri right back there on that painting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=124.1s	124.1	 Well, I often call him Bit, which is short for Alpha Bit, which is short for Alpha Centauri.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 Anyway, long story, but I was thinking it would be a good idea to teach Clementine how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=134.6s	134.6	 understand her nickname. The problem is she doesn't have a nickname yet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=138.5s	138.5	 So let's come up with a new nickname for Clementine so you can see her learning her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=142.0s	142.0	 name from scratch. Oh gosh, well, we could name you Maniac because that's kind of what you are.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=147.4s	147.4	 Clementine, Clementine. Tiny, tiny. That's perfect for her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 So the first thing I want to do is just get her attention on me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=155.3s	155.3	 And when I get her attention on me, I'm going to reward her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=157.9s	157.9	 I'm using some small salmon treats today. I think she's going to love them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 Clementine's very interested in the treats. I've got them over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=164.0s	164.0	 I'm going to try and get her attention on me. And when she pays attention to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=167.1s	167.1	 I'm going to say tiny. Tiny. Good. Nice work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=171.5s	171.5	 She just kind of glanced at me. That's fine right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=173.9s	173.9	 Her levitts looking pretty good, but I'm looking for her attention on me, not the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=183.5s	183.5	 Hey, tiny. Good. Nice work. So every time she looks at me, she's hearing this word
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=188.2s	188.2	 tiny. And over time, the hope is that she starts to associate that word with referring to her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=194.3s	194.3	 Tiny. Good. That was a really good example. She was distracted by the toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=198.3s	198.3	 I got her attention on me. And then I said, tiny. When she looked at me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=201.9s	201.9	 work on surprising your dog and getting their attention on you and then saying their name.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=205.8s	205.8	 When they look at you and catch them off guard, that'll help them to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=209.4s	209.4	 internalize their name and really begin to understand what it means.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=212.9s	212.9	 And lots of different contexts. You really want your dog to love the sound of their name.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=217.7s	217.7	 I'll tell you what now let's teach Clementine what this is teaching your dog. What an object is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 is extremely similar to what you might do with a young toddler.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=226.2s	226.2	 When you're trying to teach them what something is. So I'm going to hold the ball and I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=230.2s	230.2	 be very deliberate. And when she looks at it, I'm going to say, so I'm going to looking at it again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=237.9s	237.9	 Ball. Very good. Ball. This is a ball. Ball. This is your ball.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=246.8s	246.8	 Ball. Yes. Get your ball. Yes. Ball. Yes. Get your ball. Perfect. Get your ball. Yes. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=259.6s	259.6	 I love it. When she grabs it on her own, I'm going to say ball. When I throw it, I'm going to say ball.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 Don't chew on your ball. Play with your ball. Get your ball. Really using the word contextually.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=275.4s	275.4	 Yes. That's your ball. You're grabbing your ball. Do you want to play with your ball? Go get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=281.2s	281.2	 ball. This will really help your dog to really understand what the ball is in all situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=286.2s	286.2	 Speak to them deliberately. Don't limit yourself. Phrases like go get your end. Do you wanna. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=291.9s	291.9	 go to the. Are phrases that your dog will learn naturally over time as you continue to speak to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=297.8s	297.8	 them when these situations arise in real life. Your dog is fully capable of learning simple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=303.1s	303.1	 sentences and phrases provided you really go out of your way to show them what language means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=308.4s	308.4	 and lots of different conditions and settings. This isn't something that you teach your dog in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=312.3s	312.3	 a single training session, but over months, that's really the secret to teaching your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=316.6s	316.6	 how to understand language in detail. Stop biting my arm. There's the spark right there. It was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=322.4s	322.4	 really difficult to get her to take to the tug toy so far, but now she's starting to do it. So as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=328.1s	328.1	 side note, if you're trying to teach your dog to bite on something, right, just really stay the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=331.9s	331.9	 course and make the toy super interesting. So much better when you bite on this instead of my arms.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=337.1s	337.1	 This is good. I like this calm behavior. I'm just going to let her chill. Let's see how long this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=342.4s	342.4	 lasts. You're biting my shirts. Of course, you're going to want your dog to associate some words
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=348.9s	348.9	 with specific actions like sit or stay. For example, at first, when you're doing this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=353.4s	353.4	 it's generally a pretty good idea to not use a whole lot of language because you just want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=358.6s	358.6	 encourage them to do the action. For example, we're going to try and teach her to lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=362.9s	362.9	 and introduce the word lie down to her. So her sit, I think is good. Sit. Yes. Okay. Great. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=369.8s	369.8	 notice what I'm going to do here. I'm just, well, she got the treat there. I'm going to lure her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=374.6s	374.6	 Good. Nice work. So I'm not saying anything to her at all right now. Now I'm reasonably confident
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=379.5s	379.5	 that she's going to follow the lure into a down. So watch what I'm going to do this time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=383.5s	383.5	 Okay. Down. I'm saying down as she lies down. Good. Up. She went up. I'm going to go ahead and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=394.0s	394.0	 give her the treat. Yes. Down. Good work. And up. Great. So I'm saying the term simultaneously
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=403.3s	403.3	 with the action so that she associates the action with the word. Now there's a fine line between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=408.4s	408.4	 not saying a lot of words and being genuinely enthusiastic with your dog. So you'll have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=412.5s	412.5	 kind of find that fine line with your own dog. Up. Good. And how about down? Wow. I think we got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=421.3s	421.3	 lucky there, but I'm really happy with that. I'm going to give her a big jackpot reward. Lots of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=425.9s	425.9	 tiny pieces of salmon. So if I want Clementine to lie down outside my friend's house or in the car,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=431.7s	431.7	 I'm going to have to specifically teach her those words and phrases and actions in those types of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=437.0s	437.0	 settings. If you do this very often with your dog, they'll eventually be able to generalize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=441.4s	441.4	 much better. As your dog comes to learn this general process of what words and phrases mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=445.6s	445.6	 you ought to notice that their general progress really begins to accelerate. Oh man, that's exactly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=451.1s	451.1	 what you need. Accelerated language learning. Click thumbs up for Clementine. Subscribe to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=456.0s	456.0	 channel for everything dog and join me on Patreon for better access to me. Don't forget to set up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNjGopcKKHI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=452&pp=iAQB&t=460.8s	460.8	 automatic pet food delivery at PetFlow too. Clementine, you did a great job today.
