https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Thank you to PetFlo for sponsoring this video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=2.4s	2.4	 Today I'm going to show you how to get your dog to listen from 5 inches or 50 feet away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=7.3s	7.3	 Click thumbs up, make sure you subscribe to my channel for more videos, pick up a copy of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=11.1s	11.1	 book for a more complete dog training experience, and to help keep these free dog training videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=15.6s	15.6	 coming, join our crowdfunding community on Patreon. I'll have a link in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=20.4s	20.4	 For your dog, doing things with a distance can be tough, but you don't have to go far distances to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 get your dog's food every couple of weeks. Save yourself the hassle and have your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 automatically shipped to your door at any time interval you'd like. Just choose your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=34.1s	34.1	 and how often you want it delivered and PetFlo will do the rest. I'll have a coupon code that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 will give you $10 off your first three orders in the description. Support companies that support
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=43.7s	43.7	 modern ethical dog training. Now let's find out what Satchmo is like from the person who knows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=48.5s	48.5	 him best, his mom. My name's Abby. This here is Satchmo. He is my pup. He is an Irish wolf hound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=56.4s	56.4	 and he is nine and a half months old. I'm a veterinarian. I am actually Zach's dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=61.8s	61.8	 veterinarian. I told him we were getting a puppy and ever since then we've been working with Satchmo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=66.9s	66.9	 When we brought Satchmo home, he was only 11 weeks and he only weighed about 20 pounds. He currently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=73.0s	73.0	 is at about 108 pounds. He's going to get to be about 140 and when he's fully grown he'll be about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=79.4s	79.4	 seven feet tall when he stands on his back legs. Training is going great at home, but at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=86.0s	86.0	 not so much. So Zach, please help us get Satchmo to listen at a distance. It's much easier to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 your dog to listen to you while you're up close, which is why we do this first. However, if you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=96.7s	96.7	 get your dog listening to you from a farther distance away, this is a great sign that you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=101.0s	101.0	 starting to achieve more advanced communication. A prerequisite to today's lesson is that your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=105.9s	105.9	 can do a basic stay while you walk away. If you haven't yet got there with your dog, I'll have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=110.8s	110.8	 video in the description. Satchmo is a little distracted because we're at this beautiful public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 park so I'm going to see if I can get his attention on me right now so we can get back to this lesson.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=119.1s	119.1	 Satchmo, will you sit? Very good, nice work. I'm going to ask him to lie down. Lie down. Oh, you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=126.7s	126.7	 such a rock star buddy. He's a prodigy. And by the way, even though he's a giant dog, I'm still using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 really tiny pieces of turkey in this lesson. So it's all about stimulating their taste buds,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 not about getting them full. So use a high quality reward, whether that's really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=141.6s	141.6	 dog treats or even something like actual meats. You can see he's a little distracted there. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=146.2s	146.2	 a young child riding his bike. I'm going to see if I can get him up here. Come on. Yeah, good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=153.8s	153.8	 Nice work. All right. So everything's going wonderfully so far. Now, just to see what we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=159.1s	159.1	 working with, I'm going to go pretty far away from him and see whether or not he generalizes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=162.9s	162.9	 the behaviors we just saw. Most dogs will get confused when you start asking them to do things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 when you're in a different position than usual. By the way, you might notice I've got a really long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=171.4s	171.4	 lead on Satchmo just to make sure that I can control the environment really well. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=177.2s	177.2	 Okay, right there. I'm doing everything as I did before. Sit. And he's not sitting. It's normal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=183.0s	183.0	 for dogs to sit or lie down when they're very close to you. And so if your dog tries to close
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=187.0s	187.0	 the distance between you, that's just simply because that's how they've learned to do the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 tasks. Let me see if I go up a little bit closer how he does. Hey, Satchmo, sit. Right there. See
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=197.6s	197.6	 that? Isn't that interesting? Stay. Lie down. Now, I'm doing everything the same as I was doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=207.9s	207.9	 before. Lie down. But you can see if I'm really close up here and I say, Satchmo, lie down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=213.5s	213.5	 he's going to go right into the down. So how do we bridge that gap and get our dogs to listen to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=217.8s	217.8	 us when we're farther away? Let's see if we can find that exact point from where Satchmo goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=223.0s	223.0	 from listening to not listening. Stay. And how about lie down?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=231.1s	231.1	 Almost. Go on. Yeah, good. I mean, you could read him so well there. He's thinking, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=237.4s	237.4	 is this what you want? Is this correct? And we want to let him know in very certain terms. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=241.9s	241.9	 exactly what we want. Good job, Satchmo. So I'm going to take a few steps back here. Let's see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=246.5s	246.5	 if he'll lie down from here. Lie down. Oh, perfect. Hey, that's better than most dogs right off the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=252.2s	252.2	 bat. I mean, this is several feet. I'm going to get up here and reward for that. Now let me see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=256.4s	256.4	 if I can go even farther away. Satchmo. Look at me. Hey, look at me. Looks good. I'm actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=262.8s	262.8	 going to reward for look at me. He glanced up at me while I was far away. I always love it when a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=267.1s	267.1	 dog gives me their attention, especially with distance and distractions. Look at me. Good job,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=273.7s	273.7	 sir. Get up. Oh, wow. We got birds. Talk about being distractable. That distracted me. When
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=282.8s	282.8	 you're teaching your dog to listen to you from a distance, you essentially need to take a step back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=286.8s	286.8	 and reteach things that they seemingly already know. But this is a completely normal and necessary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=291.7s	291.7	 part of teaching any dog. We have to patiently teach him that it doesn't matter where I'm standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=295.8s	295.8	 when I ask him to sit. Sit means the same thing, whether I'm here, way over there, up on a ladder,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 or sitting in my car, or just anywhere. Satchmo's energy is a little low right now, so I'd like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=305.6s	305.6	 see if I can kind of get him a little bit more energetic, a little bit more focused on me in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=309.3s	309.3	 environment. And we're going to try to use a different currency here, which is play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=312.9s	312.9	 Mixing up currencies can be a really valuable way to keep your dog engaged with training. Let's make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=317.0s	317.0	 sure he'll work for it. Sit. Yes. He sat right there to get some play time with the squeaky snake
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=322.9s	322.9	 toy. I love it. Get it, buddy. His let go is kind of intermittent. Stay. Lie down. I think if I get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=329.8s	329.8	 closer, lie down. Nice work. He went right into it. Just that little bit of distance can make a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=334.9s	334.9	 huge difference for many dogs. Look at me. Lie down. Pretty impressive distance. Yes. Get it. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=343.3s	343.3	 Now let me see if I can do it even farther away here. Lie down. Wow. Look at that. Nice job. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=350.6s	350.6	 that was really good. Lie down. Okay. Not quite that much. Let me get a little bit closer. Lie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=357.3s	357.3	 down. Yes. With distance training, you've got to work on this in lots of different environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=362.4s	362.4	 and as many different circumstances as you possibly can as often as you can in order to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=367.6s	367.6	 to truly generalize these concepts. You're an amazing dog. You know that you're incredible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=372.7s	372.7	 Make sure you're subscribed to my channel. Click thumbs up for Satchmo. He did an incredible job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=377.0s	377.0	 today. Pick up a copy of my book and don't forget to set up automatic pet food delivery at PetFlow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilFnhkLDAo0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=458&pp=iAQB&t=381.0s	381.0	 We'll see you guys in the next video. Good job. Oh, you did so good. You did such a wonderful job.
