https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to cover three things that your dog needs to know before you can expect good leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=4.3s	4.3	 walking manners out of them. In the description of this video I'm going to have a massive selection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=8.7s	8.7	 of leash walking videos with dogs of all kinds of personalities. To help keep these videos coming,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=13.7s	13.7	 join our crowdfunding community on Patreon. I'm going to have a link in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=17.9s	17.9	 Click thumbs up for Sophie. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel. Pick up a copy of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=21.8s	21.8	 book Dog Training Revolution. Perhaps one of the biggest things wrong with dog training today is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=26.2s	26.2	 the use of harsh training tools that are designed to train with pain and unfortunately so many of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 the big name retailers make these tools readily available to the public. For this reason I'm so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=37.3s	37.3	 enthusiastic about working with PepFlo as my main sponsor because they refuse to sell choke, prong,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=43.2s	43.2	 and electric collars. Let them automatically ship your dog's food to you making your life easier and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=48.6s	48.6	 rest easy knowing that you get your dog food and supplies from a company that endorses modern
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=53.6s	53.6	 ethical dog training methods. Enter code ZACH30 when you check out and you'll get $10 off your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 first three orders. I'll have a link in the description. Leash walking is usually taught
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 over time and remember it can be pretty unnatural for dogs because most dogs walk faster than we do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=68.4s	68.4	 Walking slowly next to a person while tethered to a leash, well that's a bit unnatural for many dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=73.4s	73.4	 First your dog has to have a very reliable sit or down stay. That's because if you're caught off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=78.5s	78.5	 guard, say for example there's a nearby off-leash dog or another stray animal, you want to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=83.3s	83.3	 that you can get your dog to reliably hold their position so that you can assess what to do next.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 Sit, stay. Nice work. Come on. Sit, stay. Good work. Let's go this way. Oh I know you're so excited,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=99.3s	99.3	 huh? Her sit stay is extremely reliable while on leash in a distracting environment. The time to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 teach your dog sit and stay is not during a leash walking session. Stay and right there there's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=110.8s	110.8	 duck. I'm telling Sophie to stay and look at her. She's such a rock star holding that stay. Making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=115.9s	115.9	 sure you have control over your own dog when real world distractions present themselves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 is going to make leash walking much easier. Next eye contact. You must be able to get your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=125.8s	125.8	 attention on you no matter how excited or how distracted they are. Maybe you see something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=130.3s	130.3	 that's likely to distract your dog like crazy birds flying around. Protocol in those situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=135.2s	135.2	 is to make sure that you get your dog's eyes on you. Sophie, sit, stay, look at me. Yeah, nice work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 We're being surrounded by seagulls right now and I'm able to get Sophie's eyes on me. You're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=148.2s	148.2	 a great job. You know that? That's fantastic eye contact girl. Practice look at me as often as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=153.6s	153.6	 possible and in many scenarios if you're serious about having a dog that listens to you on leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=158.3s	158.3	 Sophie is quite distracted by ground sense. There's lots of interesting smells. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=168.0s	168.0	 Yep, you got this. Next your dog should be able to come when called. See if your dog is pulling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=174.5s	174.5	 towards a distraction or even thinking about pulling towards a distraction. You don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=178.1s	178.1	 to have to rely on jerking their leash and collar to get them to come to you. You want your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=182.4s	182.4	 do it voluntarily and because they want to listen to you. Sophie, come here. Yes, good job. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=189.0s	189.0	 Let's walk. Come on. She's getting ahead of me. I want her to be able to come back to me when I call
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=193.4s	193.4	 her. Sophie, come here girl. Come on. Yes. I'm going to let her get ahead. Sophie, come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=198.9s	198.9	 Come on. Yes. Come on. Let's go. Look at that. Nice work. So whether it's in your backyard,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=205.3s	205.3	 your living room or on a walk, encouraging your dog to come to you when you call them is key. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=210.5s	210.5	 is what it truly means to teach your dog to think from the inside out rather than relying on physical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=215.5s	215.5	 superficial training. No amount of force or using special collars is a substitute for thoughtful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=221.2s	221.2	 teaching. Remember, if you've got a really high energy dog that doesn't behave well on leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=225.4s	225.4	 exercising them thoroughly with a game like fetch is required before leash training. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=229.8s	229.8	 if your dog doesn't yet behave ideally on leash, I'm going to have a playlist in the description of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=234.3s	234.3	 this video that'll show you everything you need to know with lots of different dogs of all kinds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=239.3s	239.3	 of different personalities. If you love learning from our videos, consider joining our crowdfunding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=243.4s	243.4	 community on Patreon. Click thumbs up if you think Sophie did an awesome job demonstrating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=247.9s	247.9	 good leash manners today. Subscribe to my channel and pick up a copy of my book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=251.8s	251.8	 Dog Training Revolution, and get your dog's food automatically shipped to you from PetFlow from now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBXVzv6Sc5A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=464&pp=iAQB&t=256.1s	256.1	 on.
