https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is sponsored by the Dog on Good Clicker Company.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=3.1s	3.1	 You can help us continue to show people how to teach their dogs with fun training methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=7.1s	7.1	 by making a contribution to our Patreon campaign.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=9.8s	9.8	 Today we're going to try and get this Tribble to somehow sit still.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=13.4s	13.4	 Does anyone know what a Tribble is anymore?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 Click thumbs up for Max, subscribe to my channel, and if you've got a new dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=18.5s	18.5	 I wrote my book just for you. I'll have all the links in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=21.6s	21.6	 Now let's learn more about this adorable, squirmy little guy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 I'm Christina. This is my new puppy Max. He's 12 weeks old and he's a fluffy corgi.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=30.9s	30.9	 Most corgis actually have short hair, so it's very rare that they're born with the fluffy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=35.3s	35.3	 recessive genes. So we actually decided to make him an Instagram account,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=39.1s	39.1	 at Fluffy Corgi Max. Please follow us. It's hard to get a picture of him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=42.9s	42.9	 because he's constantly moving. I just know he's the next big Instagram superstar.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=48.1s	48.1	 Zach, please help me teach Max to sit still. You're adorable. You're going to be a star.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=52.5s	52.5	 I completely agree. We've got to get this puppy on Instagram. But if I'm going to get him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=57.2s	57.2	 Instagram ready, I have got a lot of work to do. We managed to get some pretty cute photos of Max
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=63.4s	63.4	 not too long ago, but I got to tell you, he could definitely use some improvement in the area of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=67.8s	67.8	 posing for pictures and also not biting me too and not biting my shoelaces. If you don't have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=74.1s	74.1	 a t-shirt with your dog's picture on it, what are you waiting for? You can have one of these shirts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 made with your dog on it, starting at 15 bucks from the Dog on Good Clicker Company. These are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=83.2s	83.2	 a pretty original gift idea. You can always give them to yourself too. Brie's entire outfit is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=88.1s	88.1	 brought to us today by the Dog on Good Clicker Company too. Nice yoga pants. I like the artistic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 version here too. Looks good on you, Brie. Of course, you make anything look good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 It's unbelievable what you can have customized. I mean, look at this. Check out this printed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=101.1s	101.1	 canvas we had made. I'll have a link and a coupon code in the description. That'll give you 10% off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=105.8s	105.8	 your entire purchase, no matter how much you get. Support our sponsors that also support positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=111.2s	111.2	 training. You positively need to be positively trained right now. Teaching a dog this young to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=116.6s	116.6	 cooperate and stay focused is such a foreign concept to them. I mean, they have such little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 experience existing in our world. Today, I'm going to be using clicker training to help bridge our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=125.2s	125.2	 communication. Remember, the click means good. I like what you did. I'm going to give you a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=129.5s	129.5	 for that. So if you're a beginner or if you've hit a training plateau, give clicker training a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=133.8s	133.8	 shot. I gotta say, for being such a hyper puppy, your sit's pretty exceptional. If you're wondering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=137.7s	137.7	 about this Rapid Rewards treat pouch, it's been my favorite for years. This magnetic closure is so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=142.6s	142.6	 convenient. And you can just throw it in the wash anytime. We're going to need to get some creative
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=146.4s	146.4	 pictures. Let's see how Max does with these balloons. I don't know if he's going to freak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=151.1s	151.1	 out over the balloons or if he's going to like pop them all. I'm just going to take some time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=155.0s	155.0	 right now to let him get used to the balloons and check them out. Balloons can really throw dogs off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=160.2s	160.2	 sometimes. Look at that. See, they move kind of weird. Whoa. Good job. Yes. And as he investigates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 those balloons, I'm going to let him know I like that because I'm going to have him pose for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 picture. I don't want him to be scared of the balloons. This is what you would do to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=177.4s	177.4	 dog comfortable with a variety of things that might make them a bit nervous. Uh oh. And even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=182.3s	182.3	 though he's biting at the balloons, I actually don't mind that because it shows that he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=185.8s	185.8	 comfortable with it. So I eventually wanted to look at me so we can pose for a nice picture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=190.6s	190.6	 So let's see if we can get him sitting next to a balloon right now. Max over here. Ready? Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=196.5s	196.5	 Hey, nice. This is looking good. And since he has the tendency to lie down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 up here, I want to click while he's sitting. So I'm going to just click him and treat him a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=206.7s	206.7	 times right here while he's holding that sit. Good. And see that eye contact is everything. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=211.2s	211.2	 to try and get a picture now. Oh, that's an Instagram picture if I've ever seen one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=215.7s	215.7	 Of course, he's going to have to leave this alone. No, you're not getting you. This is just so the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=220.7s	220.7	 shot looks nice. When I set the drink down right now like that, he tends to run up to it immediately.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=225.9s	225.9	 And since I'm trying to get a good picture here with the prop, I don't want him doing that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=231.0s	231.0	 I'm going to teach him to leave it alone by. Yes, he didn't immediately run up to it. So I click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=237.2s	237.2	 and I rewarded. Good. I like that he backed off there. So I'm going to go ahead and reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=242.6s	242.6	 because I'm going to have to trust him when I go to take a picture of him sitting next to that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=247.0s	247.0	 because I'm going to be preoccupied framing up a beautiful shot of you. Hopefully appear. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=252.7s	252.7	 Now, if I can get you to look at the camera, that'd be great. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=257.2s	257.2	 Click. You can get four of these stone coasters for under 20 bucks and they can all have different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 photos on them, too. I'll have a link in the description. Obviously, he's going to have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=264.7s	264.7	 learn how to pose in a chair if he's to be a true supermodel. Why does that keep happening?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=270.7s	270.7	 How about up here? Nice work. We're going to put you up here. Good. And he doesn't look too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=276.6s	276.6	 nervous or anything. You want to be careful with things like this because they're off the ground.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=280.6s	280.6	 They're a bit top heavy. I'm getting him to look right at me. Yes. There's nothing cuter than a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=287.0s	287.0	 corgi ball, except maybe a corgi. Yes. All right. So I'm feeling pretty good. I'm going to try and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=293.4s	293.4	 get the picture now. It's the Zach and Max show. All we have to do now is teach you how to upload
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=298.0s	298.0	 your pictures. I always thought a corgi would compliment me perfectly. Click thumbs up for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=301.8s	301.8	 Max. Subscribe to this channel and pick up a copy of my book, too. Use coupon code. Love Zach to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=306.6s	306.6	 10% off your entire order from the Dog on Good Clicker Company. Check the description. Become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_PiTkCBuq4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=466&pp=iAQB&t=311.2s	311.2	 a patron on Patreon to keep the revolution growing. Good job, Max. We'll see you guys next time.
