https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 If you've ever thought about getting a new dog, surely you've wondered which is better,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=3.9s	3.9	 a mix breed dog or a purebred dog? That's exactly what we're going to cover today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=8.2s	8.2	 Click thumbs up for Sophie the Rescue Mud and in the comments below tell me what your favorite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=13.2s	13.2	 kind of dog is. I think rescue dogs are. Subscribe to my channel so you don't miss any of my future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=17.9s	17.9	 videos and if you're thinking about getting a dog or you just want a comprehensive guide to raising
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=22.3s	22.3	 one, pick up a copy of my book Dog Training Revolution. It'll give you all of the info you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=27.4s	27.4	 need. I'll have a link in the description. Maybe you're convinced that a purebred dog is better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=31.5s	31.5	 because you know their parents, how big they'll be and other history. On the other hand, maybe you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=36.3s	36.3	 think mix breed dogs are better because you've heard that they're often healthier due to hybrid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=40.6s	40.6	 vigor or heterosis, which means that a crossbred offspring will often show qualities that are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=45.8s	45.8	 superior to those of either parent. We can generalize all day long, but the only way to know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=50.7s	50.7	 so many important things which will affect your dog's long-term health and their well-being is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 look at their DNA. This is one of the miracles of living in the modern world. I know that when many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=60.8s	60.8	 of us think DNA tests, we think oh that's for finding out what breed my dog is, but there is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=65.8s	65.8	 much more important information that you can learn by testing your dog's DNA. 40% of dogs will suffer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 from a disease they inherited. That's why it's so important to know as much as you can about your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=75.2s	75.2	 dog's genetic health. Clearly Sophie has the genetic condition which predisposes her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=81.6s	81.6	 So if you know what conditions your individual dog is predisposed to, you and your vet can begin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=86.5s	86.5	 taking preventative actions as early as possible which might help them live longer and save you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 money. For example, your dog could have genes associated with bladder stones, but some bladder
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=96.2s	96.2	 stones can actually be prevented with an appropriate diet. All DNA tests are not the same. I trust Embark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=102.6s	102.6	 because they use 20 times more information in their tests than other tests. I'm going to have a link in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=107.9s	107.9	 the description where you can get your Embark DNA test and get $30 off just enter code Zach George.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=113.8s	113.8	 As a trainer, I cannot tell the difference when I train a mixed breed dog versus a purebred dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=118.9s	118.9	 and that's because every single dog is an individual and their personality is shaped by so much more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=125.1s	125.1	 than arbitrary breed labels. Of course sometimes stereotypes are true with some individuals,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=130.3s	130.3	 but anecdotal data about a breed's behavior in general is far from reliable when you're focusing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=136.1s	136.1	 on an individual dog. Even if you've got the textbook Labrador, the variations in their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=140.8s	140.8	 personality from dog to dog are what should govern how you raise and care for them, not what they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=146.2s	146.2	 supposed to be. If you're choosing a dog, should you choose a mixed breed dog or purebred dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=150.6s	150.6	 Well mixed breed dogs often come from animal shelters and are more affordable with a low
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=154.7s	154.7	 adoption fee, but sometimes when you get a mixed breed puppy you have no idea how big they're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=159.0s	159.0	 to be or how much they're going to shed for example. That's so much hair. However, you might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=164.6s	164.6	 find that if you adopt a dog from an animal shelter you might just have the best dog ever.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=169.7s	169.7	 Why do you shed so much? On the other hand, maybe you prefer a purebred dog for any variety of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 reasons. The advantages here are that you'll know the size of the dog, their general appearance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=178.7s	178.7	 and physical abilities. But which is healthier, purebred dogs or mixed breed dogs? Well, most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=184.7s	184.7	 genetic conditions are recessive which means that purebreds are more likely to get them because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=189.3s	189.3	 they're more likely to inherit two copies of the same gene, one from each parent. Now generally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=194.3s	194.3	 when you have a smaller gene pool the odds of offspring inheriting a genetic disease are higher.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 However, this also means that purebred dogs are more likely to have predictable genetic conditions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=204.7s	204.7	 which in the past may have been preferable to not having any idea what you're going to get. Of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=209.2s	209.2	 a DNA test from Embark makes this point virtually irrelevant because you can find out your individual
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=215.1s	215.1	 dog's genetic risks regardless of their breed or breed mix and that is game changing. I can't stress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=221.7s	221.7	 how easy it is to get a wealth of vital information with a basic saliva test. You just take this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=226.7s	226.7	 collection swab right here and you wipe the inside of their mouth. Oh you're being so good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=232.6s	232.6	 You can't eat the DNA test. Seal it up and send it in and you'll get this detailed easy to understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=238.6s	238.6	 and fun report that explains your dog's genetic conditions and what they mean. Another great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=243.7s	243.7	 advantage to those of you with mutts is that you'll get a really accurate breakdown of your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=247.8s	247.8	 dog's breed mix too which is so cool. They'll even be able to tell you your dog's ideal weight and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=252.9s	252.9	 their approximate age based on their individual genetics. Plus, I can't tell you how much fun it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=258.0s	258.0	 is looking at your dog's family tree all the way back to their great grandparents. And regardless
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=262.6s	262.6	 of whether or not you choose a purebred dog or a mixed breed dog, a rescue dog is a fantastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=268.3s	268.3	 choice. In the description I'm going to have a link where you can get a DNA test from Embark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=272.6s	272.6	 and remember you'll get 30 bucks off that test too. Just enter code ZACHGEORGE when you check out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=277.7s	277.7	 Give Sophia a big thumbs up. She did awesome today. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4qRupEeldY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=478&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 and we'll see you guys next time. Good job girl!
