https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today we are going to talk about getting the kids involved with a family dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=4.7s	4.7	 With me today is Andy and his dog Zool. Click thumbs up for Andy. I mean look at this hair, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=10.6s	10.6	 When it actually comes out on your channel I'm going to see how much thumbs up it gets.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 If it gets like something around a thousand, ten thousand, I'll be like...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 Also make sure you're subscribed to my channel if you want to learn everything about teaching your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=23.8s	23.8	 dog. As soon as you get this on YouTube I'm definitely gonna watch it. I hope so. You're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=29.3s	29.3	 gonna give a thumbs up, right? I can't get thumbs up. I don't have my account. And pick up a copy of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=33.9s	33.9	 my book, Dog Training Revolution. I'll have a link in the description. Andy, who's in charge of feeding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 Zool at your house? I am. And how often do you feed Zool? Once a day. Once a day? And that's one of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=45.0s	45.0	 things I love about when kids get involved with a dog. I mean just feeding them once a day teaches
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=49.5s	49.5	 them how to be consistent with something. Do you guys let Zool on the couch? Yeah. Yeah. We always do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=55.1s	55.1	 Did you know that you could have Zool's food automatically shipped to your house? How? Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=59.8s	59.8	 ask your parents to go to Pet Flow, choose Zool's favorite brand of dog food, and how often you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=64.5s	64.5	 it delivered. Sounds easy, right? Do you get a good deal? You know you get a good deal. You just enter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=69.5s	69.5	 code ZAC20 when you check out and you'll get 20% off of your first automatic shipment. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=74.8s	74.8	 How old are you? Six. I would swear I was talking to a 10 year old. Thanks for saying that. Now do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 you know absolutely, definitely what you want to be when you grow up yet? YouTuber. I love it. I love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=87.3s	87.3	 it. That's a good choice. Man, what made you decide to want to be a YouTuber? Because I love watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=92.2s	92.2	 YouTube channels and I thought that I might like making one for myself. You're good at video games?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=98.0s	98.0	 Yeah, I'm very good. YouTube definitely needs more gaming channels because there are not enough. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=103.0s	103.0	 agree with that. Tell me what your favorite thing to do with Zool is. Um, play with them. Oh, I love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=110.7s	110.7	 that. It's true. And when you play with a dog, you can like connect with them so much quicker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=115.5s	115.5	 It's the fastest way to form a really effective, awesome bond with a dog. Have you found that to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=120.4s	120.4	 the case? Um, no. No? Okay. All right. Wait, what? I don't. Have you found that when you play with Zool,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=127.9s	127.9	 that you grow a lot closer together and that you love each other more? Yeah. Tell me what your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=134.0s	134.0	 favorite part about teaching Zool is. I really love dogs and I want to learn more about them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=142.2s	142.2	 What else do you want to train Zool? Paw and other paw. Oh, so like shake hands and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=147.8s	147.8	 shake with the other one or give paw and give other paw. Oh, that would be cool. Now I met with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=152.4s	152.4	 you recently and last time you were here, you were having some issues with Zool on teaching him to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=156.7s	156.7	 lie down. So I showed you how to use the clicker and I gave you some pointers on lie down. Do you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=161.2s	161.2	 want to show me how you're doing with that? Um, sure. I hope I get a lot of thumbs up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=166.1s	166.1	 and also I want to be on your channel more. You want to be on my channel more? All right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=169.9s	169.9	 If you want to see more of Andy and Zool on our channel, definitely click thumbs up and tell me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 in the comments below and make sure you're subscribed. So let's see how he's doing with lie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=178.4s	178.4	 down. Um, I don't think he's doing that well with that. Well, then let's see if we can improve it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=184.1s	184.1	 That's what I'm here to help you with. So remember with the click, you click every time you like what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=189.4s	189.4	 he does, but you remember that you have to give a treat after you click, right? Boy, wait, um, paw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=196.1s	196.1	 Whoa, good job on the paw. Good. And so you clicked right when he did the thing you liked and you gave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=200.9s	200.9	 him a reward. That's perfect. Lay down. Oh, look, he's thinking about it. Stick with him. So if he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=209.2s	209.2	 looks like he's thinking about doing it, just be patient and slow down. All right, lay down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=214.5s	214.5	 I'll tell you what here. I think we need to take a step back on our training. So watch this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=220.3s	220.3	 So I'm going to say sit and it's okay to use a nice quiet voice when we're talking to our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=224.7s	224.7	 dogs and remember this we're going to lure you. Remember when to click, right? All right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=233.5s	233.5	 Okay. You, you seem a little unsure as to when to click there. Why were you unsure?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=237.4s	237.4	 Because you didn't tell them to lay down that time. Oh, that. Okay. I see what you mean. So in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=242.5s	242.5	 the beginning, I don't usually say what to do because they don't know what I'm talking about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=246.3s	246.3	 anyway. If a dog doesn't know something. So let's try it again. Ready? So we're going to say, oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=251.3s	251.3	 it's a little tricky at first with clicker training. Even most, yes, most adults don't even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=255.4s	255.4	 really understand that. So you're doing great. So we're going to lower him down the moment he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=259.3s	259.3	 lies down. Let's go ahead and click. Okay. Perfect. Excellent job. Now you try encouraging to go down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=266.2s	266.2	 to the slow real slow. Yes. Awesome job. Look at that. Now that's what I'm talking about. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=271.1s	271.1	 was really impressive. You told me he wasn't doing that well with lie down a moment ago.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=276.1s	276.1	 That looked pretty good. What do you think? Yeah, because, um, like this, if I tell him to lay down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=281.7s	281.7	 lay down, he doesn't really understand that. Okay. So that's it. That just means you need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=286.1s	286.1	 practice a little bit more. You're not good at a game the first time. Are you? Well, sometimes I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=290.8s	290.8	 really good at video games the first time. The more you play it, the better you get. Is that right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=297.4s	297.4	 So teaching dogs is the same exact thing. Say.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=303.4s	303.4	 Nice. Now ask him to lie down. Lie down. He's quite coordinated with that clicker. I mean, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=310.1s	310.1	 That is what I'm talking about, man. You. That's so great. He's really good at lay down. So show
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=316.6s	316.6	 me how he's doing with paw. He's doing really good with that. I've been working with him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=322.5s	322.5	 All right. Let's see it. Paw. Yes. Wow. That's okay. I can't click. I can't click. I had a paw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=329.4s	329.4	 Sometimes it's a little awkward to be doing. He just lay down. So I'm clicking that. I love it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=333.6s	333.6	 And I didn't even tell him to lay down. He's doing so good right now. Yeah. That's amazing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=340.7s	340.7	 Oh, are we high fiving? Yeah. All right. Paw. And so good. That's great. It's okay that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=345.9s	345.9	 missed your click though. That takes practice. Oh, look, he just raised the other paw. Did you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=350.0s	350.0	 that? Yeah, that's crazy. I thought you said he didn't know other paw. All right. This is doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=355.3s	355.3	 really good. Let's see. Let's see. Let's go sit. Nice to meet you. And now let's see if we can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=361.6s	361.6	 the other paw. No, not that paw. Yes. That paw. Good job on the click. Hey, I think we're on to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=368.2s	368.2	 something here. We should start like a dog training show or something. Yeah. I definitely agree with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=372.3s	372.3	 you on that. And you're basically the boss. Paw. Good. And other paw. Don't click because we asked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=380.6s	380.6	 for the other paw. Yeah. Other paw. Right. Let me try. Yeah. Good job. Whoa. Look at this. He's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=387.4s	387.4	 a other paw machine. This time you click and I give it to you. Okay. I'll do the click and you do the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=392.9s	392.9	 treat. Paw. Paw. Wait. Good. Nice work. Good job. Now we're going to do other paw. Other paw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=403.0s	403.0	 Other paw. Other paw. If just be patient. Don't lay down. We'll click for just to keep them from getting frustrated.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=411.6s	411.6	 See that? Right there. Just that small increase in energy right there. Sometimes it's enough to get a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=418.3s	418.3	 dog to be more compliant to listen to you. There are so many virtues to having kids interact with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=423.0s	423.0	 a dog. They learn things like patience, empathy, understanding something from a different perspective,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=428.6s	428.6	 what it's like to work with an animal and get results over a long period of time because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=432.9s	432.9	 results are not always instantaneous when we teach dogs. And while it's great for young people to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=437.8s	437.8	 involved with teaching the dog, it is important to remember that ultimately the responsibility is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=442.3s	442.3	 with the adults of the house to make sure that the dog listens in day-to-day situations. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=446.9s	446.9	 because a fair amount of life experience is required to really get into the intricacies of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=451.0s	451.0	 teaching a dog how to behave. I mean, the best way to learn is to teach. And by teaching animals,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=456.2s	456.2	 we learn so much about ourselves and those skills stay with us for our entire life. Andy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=461.5s	461.5	 it is so clear that you have such a strong bond with Zul and you're doing a really, really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=466.6s	466.6	 job. Click thumbs up if you think Andy did a great job today with Zul. Also subscribe to my channel,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=471.7s	471.7	 pick up a copy of my book, Dog Training Revolution, and don't forget to set up automatic pet food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=476.4s	476.4	 delivery at Pet Flow. All the links will be in the description. Help me continue to make educational
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=481.7s	481.7	 videos like this by making a monthly contribution on my Patreon page. Your money helps us make better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gvNDP7JIxaU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=499&pp=iAQB&t=487.0s	487.0	 videos. Peace out.
