https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 There are a number of us who have multiple dogs in our household and sometimes those dogs don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 always get along as well as we'd like them to. Have you guys ever experienced conflict between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=8.4s	8.4	 multiple dogs? Tell me in the comments below. If you want to learn everything I know about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=12.1s	12.1	 dog training, make sure you're subscribed to my channel. When dogs have difficult or complex
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=16.1s	16.1	 relationships with one another, I want to give you my advice as to what I would do if I were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=20.0s	20.0	 in your position. Ideally, for those of you watching who are thinking about getting another dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=23.9s	23.9	 it's important to consider before bringing a dog into your family whether or not they are likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=28.2s	28.2	 to get along with your dog. We want to consider things like their personalities, their energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=31.9s	31.9	 levels, and their play styles. And sometimes it's really important to take those initial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=35.7s	35.7	 introductions very slowly. Yeah, like a good girl. Let them smell each other. This is all very nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=44.9s	44.9	 at first. And fortunately, Chop is being quite respectful. We also want to be one step ahead of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=49.3s	49.3	 our dogs and prevent things that are likely to cause conflict. For example, a really common
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=54.7s	54.7	 reason for conflict amongst dogs are resource guarding issues. Maybe one dog is playing with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=58.9s	58.9	 a toy, the other dog wants to play with it also. And so before you know it, you've got a dog fight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=63.1s	63.1	 on your hands and that's no fun. So initially, we want to make sure that we teach each dog one on one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=68.5s	68.5	 how to manage their resources, make sure they're comfortable with having the other dog around and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=73.1s	73.1	 so forth. For those reasons, it's a good idea that when they eat that they eat in separate areas and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=77.0s	77.0	 that they sleep in separate areas, just so you can ease them in and not provide too much stress at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=81.2s	81.2	 once. If you are struggling with resource guarding, I've made videos on that in the past,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=84.6s	84.6	 you can easily do a YouTube search for my recommendations there. Rather than trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=88.0s	88.0	 go in there and take a bone from your dog and risking getting snapped at, it's a good idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=92.3s	92.3	 to manage that. And of course, if you already have this issue with your dogs, these are things you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=95.6s	95.6	 can do retroactively. Prioritize your obedience, make sure you're very consistent and that every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=100.4s	100.4	 dog knows how to sit and stay and lie down or give the other dog space. You'll really want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=105.6s	105.6	 focus on polishing that communication. I think it's also important to make sure that each dog has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 their one-on-one time with you. Don't insist that you play with the dogs as a pair all of the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=115.4s	115.4	 Give them those separate training sessions and we want to recognize our dog's individual needs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=120.4s	120.4	 If and when dogs do play, it's vital that we are observing them and supervising them and looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=125.8s	125.8	 for any potential signs of stress or aggression from either or both dogs. Ideally, we would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=131.2s	131.2	 intervene before any conflicts would break out so the dogs have a chance to relax, take it in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=137.2s	137.2	 take a break, and then maybe play again or not depending on their relationship.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=141.5s	141.5	 Inertia has learned that she can come up to me if she needs separation from a dog. I like that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=146.1s	146.1	 does that naturally. See that? I won't. Good girl. And I want to let her know that I'm here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=151.8s	151.8	 to protect her as well. She feels safe near me. Good girl. And I've got a history with Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=156.1s	156.1	 I know her very well and I feel like she'll be more secure if he's a little bit more stable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=160.6s	160.6	 And as long as I keep Chop from coming on too strong, Inertia seems to trust me to intervene
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=165.0s	165.0	 on her behalf. Regular exercise along with other mental activities that keep them satisfied
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=170.1s	170.1	 are really important. For example, we like to exercise our dogs early in the day,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=174.3s	174.3	 play fetch with them so that they feel physically satisfied and they have the mental satisfaction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 of performing a task along with a human being. For other dogs that might look like basic training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=183.4s	183.4	 or doing some trick training early in the day or a really nice structured walk with some fun
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=188.6s	188.6	 experiences planned, these activities are likely to reduce stress with our dogs, therefore making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=194.6s	194.6	 conflict less likely in many instances. It's so important that in these cases that when we do find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=200.2s	200.2	 our dogs behaving acceptably in the company of one another, whether that's a productive play session
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=205.5s	205.5	 or the fact that we have one dog across the room while the other one is staying here when they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=209.9s	209.9	 otherwise found that challenging, that we recognize those successes for our dogs and try to provide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=215.1s	215.1	 positive outcomes in order to ensure that those acceptable behaviors are likely to be repeated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=219.9s	219.9	 later on. And we really want to do our best to understand the underlying causes as to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=224.0s	224.0	 why our dogs may not be getting along with one another. Is it fear related? Do they have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=228.3s	228.3	 territorial issues? Is it resource guarding? Sometimes it's not always easy to figure out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=233.0s	233.0	 so it's always a good idea to bring a professional in who does use modern methods and does not use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=237.6s	237.6	 aversive dog training methods. As we know, aversive methods are outdated and are not recommended by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=242.3s	242.3	 any relevant academic body to the profession of dog training in the 21st century. It's essential
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=247.6s	247.6	 that we control the environment and there are many ways to do this. You could have baby gates to keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=251.9s	251.9	 dogs separate as you work on their issues. These are what we call management solutions, so we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=256.9s	256.9	 bring an immediate stop to the behavior by sensibly managing our dogs. Sometimes it's necessary to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=262.2s	262.2	 keep the dogs in separate rooms as you diagnose and work through these issues and avoid overwhelming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=267.6s	267.6	 them. We don't want to just insist that our dogs get over it. And remember, if you physically punish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=271.9s	271.9	 behavior, say a scuffle does break out and you try to discipline the dogs, all we're doing is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=276.0s	276.0	 escalating the matter and that doesn't really address the root cause. So management, not physical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=281.3s	281.3	 punishment, is the answer, followed by a productive plan that's likely to keep both dogs happy, safe,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=286.6s	286.6	 and have a good quality of life. Desensitizing the dogs, in other words, getting them very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 comfortable with being in the presence of one another while behaving in acceptable ways, even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=295.8s	295.8	 if separated, is a great place to start. And also counter conditioning them. We want to change our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 dog's association once we've identified the root causes. For example, if they're fearful and over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=306.2s	306.2	 time we show them there's nothing to be scared of and we can create a more neutral response from one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=311.2s	311.2	 or both of the dogs, this is moving us in the right direction. Another activity that might be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=315.8s	315.8	 helpful for some are to do parallel walks between the two dogs. So if a partner could walk one dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=321.0s	321.0	 while you walk the other one and they can enjoy a walk together while in the same general area,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=326.7s	326.7	 we're racking up those instances and those minutes of acceptable behavior while in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=330.6s	330.6	 presence of one another. This establishes a nice precedent for them to build on and understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=335.8s	335.8	 one another and how to behave contextually better. We want to do our absolute best to create a calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=342.1s	342.1	 atmosphere for our dogs, one that is as free of stress as possible. We want to encourage our dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=347.1s	347.1	 to relax and to feel comfortable at all times if we can. And we have to mention that some dogs are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=352.7s	352.7	 going to have issues where they may not ultimately get along with other dogs. Genetics can play a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=358.2s	358.2	 heavy role in this in addition to environment. And for some dogs it might make more sense for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=362.4s	362.4	 them to be in another home that's more appropriate for them. It's important to always look at what's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=366.4s	366.4	 going to be in the best interest of our dogs for them long term. Training your dog can go a long way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=371.0s	371.0	 I want to share with you one of my favorite dog training products. Hubbox sends evidence-based
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=375.0s	375.0	 monthly training guides front and back every month along with the things you need to train your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=379.6s	379.6	 Whoa, hello. To help you with things like crate training, potty training, socialization, grooming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=384.2s	384.2	 tips. This one has leash walking tips. Toys come out and inertia is ready. This box really works.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=389.8s	389.8	 That's an engaged dog. These supplies, toys, and treats are perfect for positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=394.6s	394.6	 dog training. That's what's on the inside of this. If you're dealing with teething or unwanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=398.2s	398.2	 chewing, these are the bomb. Use the code ZACH5 at PupBox to get your first PupBox for $5. Click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=405.7s	405.7	 thumbs up, subscribe. I hope this was helpful. I just wanted to get this advice out there because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4OdgH5BEzg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=51&pp=iAQB&t=408.8s	408.8	 I get this question a lot. We'll see you next time.
