https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to show you how to teach your dog, oh my gosh, something really cool.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=7.4s	7.4	 Today's episode is sponsored by the Dog on Good Clicker Company.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=11.2s	11.2	 Click thumbs up if you think Ricky Jr. has the cutest ears ever. We borrowed him from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 Jefferson Parish Animal Shelter here in New Orleans. He was picked up as a stray a few weeks ago,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 and he's just been adopted. So we're going to give him a little bit of training to get him off to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 great start. If you're new, subscribe to my YouTube channel to learn how to teach your dog quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 and with modern methods. Also, if you're serious about teaching your dog, pick up a copy of my book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 Dog Training Revolution. Wherever you see this play button, there's a corresponding video on my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=40.3s	40.3	 YouTube channel. Today we're going to be using a clicker to teach Ricky Jr. to shake hands or give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=45.0s	45.0	 paw. I find that using a clicker can really deliver fast results, especially if you're a beginner.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=50.3s	50.3	 This sound to Ricky Jr. is going to mean good dog, a delicious treat is on its way. Now this whole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=56.9s	56.9	 concept just takes a second to teach your dog. And guess what? The Dog on Good Clicker Company
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=61.8s	61.8	 has sent us their personalized puppy packages. You guys are going to love this and your dogs will too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=67.3s	67.3	 The Deluxe Puppy Package comes with a Rapid Rewards Pouch, the best treat pouch on the market,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=71.9s	71.9	 a Flying Treat Tug Frisbee, a bandana. It's your bandana. This is not a tug toy. Whoa. All of which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=78.8s	78.8	 you can get personalized, plus two collapsible travel bowls, three styles of clickers, and three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=84.4s	84.4	 wristbands. You can get it in a personalized drawstring backpack with your dog's name on it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=89.5s	89.5	 or even get it gift wrapped. What have you done? This Flying Treat Tug Frisbee is an incredibly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=97.0s	97.0	 diverse toy. You can play tug of war with it, throw it as a frisbee, or even hide treats inside of it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=102.0s	102.0	 Get the Deluxe Puppy Package and you'll have everything you need to become an expert in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=106.4s	106.4	 clicker training. And you'll look good doing it too. Check out the description for a link and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=111.5s	111.5	 special coupon code that you can't bite me when you bite me for. If you successfully teach your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=116.9s	116.9	 dog how to give paw or how to shake, you're not just teaching a cool, fun trick, but you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=121.4s	121.4	 really broadening your communication with them. And that's why we do things like this. The benefit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=126.1s	126.1	 of clicker training is that it allows you to have precision timing so that the moment your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=131.2s	131.2	 even a little bit on the right track, you can get traction and bring out the behavior you want more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=135.9s	135.9	 quickly from the inside out. So the first thing I want to do is teach Ricky Jr. what this click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 actually means. So every time I click, I'm just going to follow it up with a reward. You can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=147.2s	147.2	 how after doing this a few times, a dog is going to start to make the connection that, hey, when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=151.8s	151.8	 hear that sound, I get an amazing, awesome treat. Use really small, really good tasting treats too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=158.3s	158.3	 That's important. You don't want your dog to fill up because you want the option to click them and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=162.2s	162.2	 give them lots of rewards over a period of time. Now you could use really good soft dog treats for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 this, or you could use something like real meat or real chicken. I'm going to click.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=172.1s	172.1	 You can see in his eyes, look at that. He's really making the connection and looking at my other hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=176.3s	176.3	 where the treats are coming from. He is a bright boy. Now my job is to get Ricky Jr. to move his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=181.0s	181.0	 paw any way that I can. Now an important note here, simply grabbing their paw like this isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=186.0s	186.0	 going to do much. There are several ways you can go about doing this. The first thing you can try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=189.4s	189.4	 to do is maybe tickle their paw. Yes, right there. He just barely moved his paw. If you can get really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=194.2s	194.2	 good at identifying those tiny moments of progress, you're going to do really well. So Ricky Jr. is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=199.0s	199.0	 really catching on quick. Let's go over another way that you can encourage your dog to give their paw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=204.2s	204.2	 He does know a sit really good. I'm going to click him and reward him because he did something I'd
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=208.8s	208.8	 like. And now I'm going to kind of lure him off the ground and see if he lifts either of those paws.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=213.0s	213.0	 Yes. Good job. And so we're just going to acknowledge, look at that right there. You might notice I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=218.9s	218.9	 saying shake or give paw. We're going to do that when the behavior becomes a little bit more reliable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=223.4s	223.4	 in a second. If you have a young puppy, especially, or a really inquisitive dog, sometimes dogs will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 use their paws to interact with the world. And you might find that just simply showing them a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=232.8s	232.8	 like this and waiting a minute, they may actually start pawing at the treat, at which time you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=238.2s	238.2	 click it. Even if it's an accident on their part, it's great to still acknowledge that they're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=242.5s	242.5	 something you like. So I'm letting him see the treat and we're just seeing if he's going to move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=245.9s	245.9	 those paws at all. Whoa, that's what I'm talking about. Yes. Good. Nice work. I love the magnetic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=253.5s	253.5	 clip on this treat pouch too. You can really start to see how he's comprehending that, oh, if I do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=258.8s	258.8	 this, the clicker goes off and I get paid and he's really into it. So therefore he's more likely to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=263.7s	263.7	 repeat the behavior. Only when you're pretty confident that your dog is going to offer the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=267.6s	267.6	 behavior you want, do you then begin to introduce the word that you're trying to teach them. So it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=273.3s	273.3	 goes like this. Good. Shake. Nice work. I mean, you can teach this in minutes with many dogs. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=281.7s	281.7	 let's see if we can get him to do it when we just ask and give him the treat afterwards. Shake.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=287.7s	287.7	 Yes. Rather than saying shake, shake, shake, you could see it in his eyes. He was thinking about it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=292.6s	292.6	 and it's important to kind of let your dog think it through in those cases rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=296.7s	296.7	 muddying up your communication. And shake. Oh, other hand, you fancy ambidextrous dog. He's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 demonstrating why shelter dogs can be some of the best dogs in the world found as a stray. And look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=310.6s	310.6	 how quickly he's learning a new trick. Just a few minutes. That's all it takes. This is only the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=315.9s	315.9	 beginning though. Once you teach your dog shake, there's a million things you can teach your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 You guys push the dog training revolution forward without our awesome supporters on Patreon who give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=324.2s	324.2	 us the money. We need to make videos like this. We couldn't make videos like this. Click thumbs up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=329.0s	329.0	 if you think Ricky Jr. learned how to shake like a pro today. Shake. Yes. And subscribe to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=334.6s	334.6	 channel too to see what else you can learn how to teach your dog. Pick up a copy of my book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=338.4s	338.4	 Dog Training Revolution for a more complete dog training experience. That was excellent. You're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=343.1s	343.1	 doing great. And check out the description too for the Dog On Good Clicker Company's puppy packages.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=347.9s	347.9	 They're also going to have a coupon code in there so that viewers of the dog training revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=351.8s	351.8	 will get a great deal on it. Yes. Very nice to meet you too. We'll see you guys in the next video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=358.2s	358.2	 Okay. You're a shaking machine. I know Ricky Jr. is going to have a great life. If you feel like your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=363.6s	363.6	 dog is stubborn, take a look at my last video with Duke the Dachshund and I'll show you exactly what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 you need to know. If you have a puppy, see my video, four things you can teach your puppy right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=373.8s	373.8	 And if you're having issues with walking your dog because they pull too much, see my video with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=378.2s	378.2	 Jacob to see how a leash training session should look. Thank you to all of our patrons who are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=382.6s	382.6	 rapidly growing the dog training revolution and thanks for subscribing. Can't wait to see you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRoDTUkzVpU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=387.3s	387.3	 in the next video.
