https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 If you can't get your dog to pay attention on a walk, today I'm going to show you what to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=9.7s	9.7	 This episode of the Dog Training Revolution is sponsored by Pepло. Click thumbs up for Molly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=14.6s	14.6	 the rescue dog. Click subscribe to learn how to teach your dog all sorts of cool things. And pick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=18.9s	18.9	 up a copy of my new best-selling book, Dog Training Revolution. It combined with my videos will give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=23.2s	23.2	 you everything you need to know to raise the perfect dog. Elizabeth and her husband Daniel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=27.4s	27.4	 have four rescue dogs. With multiple pets, it's extra convenient to have your dog food automatically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 shipped to your front door, especially if you have to get different brands or even prescription
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=36.4s	36.4	 foods. The solution to this is setting up automatic pet food delivery at Pepplo.com slash Zach George.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=41.5s	41.5	 Just choose your favorite brand of dog food and how often you want it delivered. And then those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=45.6s	45.6	 heavy bags of dog food, well, they're already going to be there whenever you need them. What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=49.0s	49.0	 I'm saying is you don't have to remember to go to the pet supply store and wait in traffic ever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=53.2s	53.2	 again. I'm going to have a special link and a coupon code that will give you 20% off of your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=57.7s	57.7	 first auto ship order in the description. Give it a shot and let me know what you think. Looks like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=62.1s	62.1	 Izzy's pretty comfortable right now and she's just the perfect dog, isn't she? She sure is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=67.4s	67.4	 How has training been going with Molly though? Cause she's got a few more issues we have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=70.9s	70.9	 kind of work on. Training has been going okay with Molly, although a little inconsistent just due to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=75.3s	75.3	 some scheduling issues. Has Molly had her exercise today? Has she played fetch? Yes, we played fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=80.0s	80.0	 this morning with all the pups. You want to make sure you get your dogs excess energy out before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=83.8s	83.8	 expecting them to retain new and intricate concepts like walking properly on a leash. How does Molly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=89.4s	89.4	 do on a walk typically? Is she good about paying attention to you or not? Not so much. She's very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 distractible whether it be another animal, especially dogs and cats, and she's even more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=98.3s	98.3	 difficult to control when we're with our other dogs, especially Chloe. Last time I was here with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=102.9s	102.9	 Molly, I noticed she was very interested in the cats next door and in the streets. So she definitely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=107.7s	107.7	 has that interest in other animals. Regarding her and Chloe walking nicely together on a leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=112.6s	112.6	 it'll be really important to get them super solid individually first before we can expect them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=117.6s	117.6	 walk nicely together. So we'll work with Molly today and in a future lesson, we can work with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=122.0s	122.0	 Chloe and then Chloe and Molly together. When we take a walk with Molly in a little bit, she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=125.9s	125.9	 going to be wearing her muzzle because she's not always accepting of strange animals coming up to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=130.3s	130.3	 her. If we hope to make progress on Molly's outburst towards other animals, we have to begin to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=135.1s	135.1	 desensitize her and have her experience what it's like to be around other animals. By having a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=140.1s	140.1	 muzzle on her, we can safely do this. Last time I was here, we worked with Molly on getting her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=144.6s	144.6	 comfortable wearing a muzzle. I'll have a link to that video in the description. Molly looks really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=148.7s	148.7	 enthusiastic about the walk today, so we're going to get her all suited up and ready to go. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=153.4s	153.4	 see how she does with her muzzle. No, no, no, no, no, no. You can't just drag your leash, honey.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=157.5s	157.5	 Yes, nice work. You're doing so great. She's going right into that. That's exactly what we want.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=162.7s	162.7	 She's wearing her muzzle happily. Now I think we're ready to get into some leash training. What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=166.6s	166.6	 do you say? There are two major types of walks. Walks where you just go on a normal stroll in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 neighborhood to give your dog some exercise and training walks. Today, we're going to be working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=176.1s	176.1	 on a training walk. See, you can't effectively hope to teach a dog much of anything unless you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=180.6s	180.6	 prepared to shift gears at any given moment when necessary. Your dog needs your full attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=185.9s	185.9	 during training sessions like this. There's nothing passive about teaching your dog to walk on a leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=190.4s	190.4	 nicely. Molly right now thinks we're going on a normal walk. She's really excited. She's already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=194.2s	194.2	 kind of pulling me forward. But before I even proceed with that, I want to verify that I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=198.4s	198.4	 get her eyes on me in a familiar setting, like right in front of her house first. So I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=202.7s	202.7	 to assess for that. Look at me. Nice work. I'm very happy that I can get Molly to do a basic sit and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=208.4s	208.4	 look at me like this right here in front of the house. But can I get her to do it while moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=213.2s	213.2	 on a leash? Yes. Up here. Good work. Come here. Nice work. See, this is how I like to get traction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=219.2s	219.2	 on leash training. Molly up here. Look at me. Great job. See, you can't hope to proceed down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=224.3s	224.3	 the block if your dog isn't very reliable right here in front of your house first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=229.0s	229.0	 And here we've gotten a bit of a training gift. A cat has just come over here and she's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=233.7s	233.7	 really well. So I'm going to go ahead and take advantage of that and really reward her right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=237.5s	237.5	 for doing a great job around the cat. Let's go take a walk down the block now. When you're on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=241.3s	241.3	 a training walk like this, try and get rid of this mindset that you have to stay on one linear path
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=246.1s	246.1	 by going random like this and changing directions rapidly on your dog. It kind of encourages them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=251.5s	251.5	 keep their attention on you to see where the walk is headed. Molly, come here. Yes. Yes. That's it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 That's the glance I'm looking for. And it's not just necessarily back and forth. I'm going across
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=261.4s	261.4	 the street now and I might go back this way. Now let's do a figure eight. That's it. Nice work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=267.4s	267.4	 And see, she's doing a much better job right now. Kind of focusing on me, seeing where everything is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 going and that's what you want at this point in your training. Sometimes if you pick your energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=276.9s	276.9	 up a little bit, your dog is more likely to be more interested in you. So try not to be too boring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=281.4s	281.4	 with them either. Reach deep and find a way to be a little peppy with them to keep them focused on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=286.0s	286.0	 you, if that makes sense. Dogs are social animals and they love it when their people are extra fun.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=290.9s	290.9	 All right Chubs, you're doing a great job. Rather than waiting for your dog to have an outburst to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=295.2s	295.2	 then correct them, focus on giving them a reward when they behave the way you do like. Even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=300.6s	300.6	 she didn't start barking and lunging towards those bikes right now, I'm not going to wait for her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=304.0s	304.0	 do that to tell her no. I'm going to take advantage of that and reward her to let her know that I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=308.5s	308.5	 how she behaved right there. That's where the emphasis of your training really needs to be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=312.1s	312.1	 As you're reasonably confident that your dog is starting to do well and pay attention to you under
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=316.5s	316.5	 moderately distracting situations like simply being outside, then you want to routinely test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=322.3s	322.3	 for willing compliance. What do I mean by that? Well, you want to ask your dog to sit. Notice she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=328.0s	328.0	 didn't sit right then. Right now something's got her attention. You can see her sniff in the air.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=331.6s	331.6	 Even when you're using something really good like real chicken, some dogs will be so distracted that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=336.3s	336.3	 they're not even interested in the chicken because the outdoors or a dog or a cat or any number of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=341.9s	341.9	 other things really can distract them. So you have to work with them through this. Desensitizing them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=346.8s	346.8	 getting them used to being around a variety of situations is the only valid path that I'm aware
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=351.8s	351.8	 of to teach your dog how to behave ideally in these circumstances. I've got to get her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=356.2s	356.2	 back on me even if it means I've got to go all the way back home. That's why this is a training walk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=361.5s	361.5	 So rather than proceed, I'm going to take a step back over here because I suspect she's more likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=366.2s	366.2	 to listen to me back here just because it's closer to the house. Sit. Molly, come here. Over here. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=375.4s	375.4	 No. And I'm just going to keep going back until I get a sit out of her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=379.1s	379.1	 Sit. And I'm letting her know I have this currency and see she's still not interested in it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=383.6s	383.6	 Got to keep going back. Come on. Sit. Yes. Good girl. All right. So I had to back up a few feet,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=392.0s	392.0	 about 15 feet or so, just to get her back into a sit. I appreciate she's working. It's not just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=396.7s	396.7	 about the treats. Let your dog feel that authentic positive energy from you too. That's not to say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=401.8s	401.8	 that you should never tolerate tension on the leash when you're walking your dog. Under normal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=406.2s	406.2	 walks, you may have to because sometimes they just need to get out there and sniff around and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=410.2s	410.2	 just be outside. Now your dog will encounter varying levels of distraction and you'll need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=414.1s	414.1	 to get good about assessing whether or not a particular distraction is too much for your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=418.3s	418.3	 or whether you can work through that distraction. And there are a lot of variables that go into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=422.6s	422.6	 that, like how much exercise your dog has received that day, how young they are, how socialized they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=427.2s	427.2	 are, their genetics and overall life experience. If you cannot get your dog to do a basic sit and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=432.0s	432.0	 look at me while around a distraction, then you're too close to the excitement and you need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=436.4s	436.4	 promptly get away from the distraction until your dog is compliant again. This requires you to test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=442.5s	442.5	 often. Once your dog sits and looks at you again, then you'll know that you're at your working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=447.0s	447.0	 distance. When you succeed at getting your dog's attention on you at will, that's when your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=451.9s	451.9	 communication with them becomes so powerful and that's so much better than any special collar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=457.0s	457.0	 or tool you could ever hope to buy. Sit. Yes. Over here, look at me. All right, see that this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=463.6s	463.6	 interesting. She did do a sit, but she didn't look at me. I've got to get those eyes on me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=467.4s	467.4	 Doesn't quite count till I can get her eyes. Come here. Over here. Up here. Yes, that's it. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=472.9s	472.9	 those eyes. Look at this loose leash. I love it. It's amazing. Now the real question is will we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=478.6s	478.6	 have a loose leash like that when we encounter a dog? Right now she's pulling towards two other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=483.0s	483.0	 dogs over here. What I'm going to do is I'm going to come back over here. Come on. No, ma'am. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=487.9s	487.9	 Come on. Over here. Sit. See this? Do you see how she won't take the treats right here? That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=493.2s	493.2	 because she is so focused on these dogs that are walking right now. I can't even push the chicken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=498.0s	498.0	 in her mouth because she wants to get to those dogs over there. I need to get her attention on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=502.0s	502.0	 me. So my goal is to create distance away from the distraction. So I'm going to go that way right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=508.5s	508.5	 and get away from those other dogs. That's the thing. Come on. Come on. Over here. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=515.1s	515.1	 That's okay. And she's got a really high pitched squealer. Come on. Yes. Yes. Almost. Almost.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=520.6s	520.6	 Got to go farther. So I'm still not far enough away from the distraction. I got to keep going.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=525.5s	525.5	 Now I'm going to test for compliance over here. Sit. No, still don't have it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=531.7s	531.7	 Will you sit? Yes. That's it. This is my working distance. And right now those two dogs are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=537.6s	537.6	 probably a half mile down the street. I had to get so far away. That's completely normal when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=542.6s	542.6	 you're having to work through reactive issues with some dogs. So good job. Now I'm going to try and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=546.5s	546.5	 get back on our normal route. And if we encounter another dog, I'll do the same thing if necessary.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=551.0s	551.0	 Well, I hear a dog over here, I think. And she keeps pulling me towards that fence. I don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=555.9s	555.9	 to go past that fence, at least for this training walk, until I feel that she's compliant. Because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=561.9s	561.9	 the closer a dog is to something they find very distracting, the less likely they are to listen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=567.1s	567.1	 to you in the presence of that distraction. If I could get her to sit just in this general area,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=571.4s	571.4	 I'd feel great with that. But this is where her attention starts to fade in and out. So it may
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=576.3s	576.3	 take several training sessions to work with your dog in a situation like this. Point of compliance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=580.8s	580.8	 is right here at this point. Let me see if I can get her to sit a little bit closer. Sit. Yes! Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=587.5s	587.5	 our point of compliance is a bit closer. I got her to sit and acknowledge me just a few feet from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=592.4s	592.4	 fence here. Really work with your dog through these types of distractions. I'm super passionate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=596.9s	596.9	 about making sure that the public has access to quality dog training information absolutely free.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=602.1s	602.1	 And we can't do it without you. Consider making a contribution of any amount you'd like to our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=607.0s	607.0	 efforts on Patreon. I'll have a link in the description. If you guys think Molly did a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=611.2s	611.2	 job today, I certainly do. Click thumbs up, make sure you're subscribed, and set up automatic pet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=615.7s	615.7	 food delivery through PetFlow. I'll have all the details and links in the description. Molly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=620.5s	620.5	 you did a great job! Remember to pick up a copy of my new book for the most thorough training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=625.6s	625.6	 experience possible. If your dog is likely to get into altercations with other dogs while in public,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=630.6s	630.6	 or you want to prepare them for the possibility of wearing a muzzle at the vet for, say, an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=635.2s	635.2	 emergency situation, check out my video on teaching your dog to love wearing a muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=639.8s	639.8	 If you want your dog to respect certain boundaries in the house, see my video with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=643.6s	643.6	 Luca the Lab on that topic. And teaching your dog to bark and or stop barking is tons of fun.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=649.7s	649.7	 See Jacob the rescue dog in that video. And we'll see you guys in the next video. Thank you so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=655.1s	655.1	 to all of our subscribers and to all of our supporters on Patreon. We couldn't do it without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XRApwBzVD9A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=521&pp=iAQB&t=659.6s	659.6	 you.
