https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I can't believe that we're actually making this video. It's crazy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=3.4s	3.4	 I have an announcement to make. You know, I've been pretty quiet about it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=6.8s	6.8	 but for the past year and a half, I've been working on my very first book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=10.0s	10.0	 along with my award-winning co-author, Dina Rothport. It's called Dog Training Revolution,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=15.5s	15.5	 The Complete Guide to Raising the Perfect Pet with Love. Click thumbs up for the book finally being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=20.5s	20.5	 done. I think most of you have dogs will agree with this, but if you're new, understand that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 there is no better way to teach your dog than to teach your dog yourself. That's because the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=30.9s	30.9	 bond you form with your dog is one of the most important ingredients to success. In fact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 it's one of my six key training principles that I cover in depth in chapter four. In that same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=39.1s	39.1	 chapter, I'll clear up lots of long-held myths in dog training, like you need to be dominant in order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=43.7s	43.7	 to be a good dog trainer. You can't teach an old dog new tricks. Once you start using treats with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=48.2s	48.2	 your dog, you'll never be able to stop using treats and lots more. There's nothing quite like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=52.5s	52.5	 the written word when it comes to understanding something in more depth, and there's nothing quite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 like video when it comes to understanding more about teaching dogs. Naturally, the book is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=61.3s	61.3	 designed to really be the perfect companion to my Dog Training Revolution videos here on YouTube.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=66.3s	66.3	 They go hand in hand. In fact, one of the more innovative things, I think anyway, about the book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=70.8s	70.8	 is that in certain sections, you'll see this play button right here, and that way you'll be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=75.9s	75.9	 go onto my website to see the corresponding videos to that particular topic. For example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=80.5s	80.5	 I talk about Lafitte at one point in the book, one of the most reactive dogs I have ever seen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=85.2s	85.2	 You just have to see him to believe him. Another example, it's easier for you to understand the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=89.6s	89.6	 more nuanced body language, like teaching a fearful dog to be more accepting when you have a video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=95.1s	95.1	 example too. And there are dozens of examples like this in the book. Keep in mind that all my video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=99.4s	99.4	 content is completely free worldwide, independent of whether or not you buy the book. However,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=103.8s	103.8	 the book really ties in the relevant videos in a very structured way. If you're looking for a more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=109.7s	109.7	 comprehensive experience when teaching your dog, if you're thinking about getting a dog, dare I say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=114.5s	114.5	 this book is a must have for you. All of the stuff you're wondering about, it's in here. I'll go into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=120.0s	120.0	 detail about the things you need to do to set you and your dog up for success from day one. Like what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=125.4s	125.4	 supplies do you need? How do you choose the right vet? What about diet? How does your dog's energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=130.5s	130.5	 level affect your training strategy? For example, is your dog an energy level one, two or three dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=136.2s	136.2	 And what does this mean in terms of your time commitment and training success? I'll cover all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=140.7s	140.7	 of the things you would expect like potty training, play biting, jumping, digging, barking,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=145.5s	145.5	 reactivity behaviors, destructive chewing and more. Of course, you'll learn the basics like teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=150.3s	150.3	 your dog their name, sit, lie down, stay, come, nice leash walking skills, listening to you around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=155.8s	155.8	 distractions like other dogs, listening to you from a distance. And of course, you'll have my videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=161.0s	161.0	 with you to help you every step of the way. I'll give you advice on healthcare, traveling with your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=165.4s	165.4	 dog, various dog sports. It was also important to me that I include lots of the most common questions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=170.6s	170.6	 I've received on YouTube and Facebook over the years too. If you're wondering if the book covers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=174.3s	174.3	 a particular topic, ask me in the comments below. I really went out of my way to make sure that this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=178.7s	178.7	 book was easy to understand for the person who's never had a dog before, as well as offering some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=183.8s	183.8	 original perspective to the dog training enthusiast and professional too. I want you to feel like you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=189.1s	189.1	 understand how to connect with your individual dog. See, every dog is different and every step of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=195.0s	195.0	 way through this book, that was at the front of my mind. If you've just gotten a dog or you're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 interested in teaching dogs, or you just want to have a comprehensive guide to raising the best
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=203.8s	203.8	 dog possible, the $15 or less that this book costs could save you a lot of money. I mean, if it saves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=209.8s	209.8	 a good pair of shoes or your couch from getting destroyed, well, I think it's money well spent,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 don't you? If you know someone who's getting a dog soon, pick up a copy of the Dog Training Revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=217.6s	217.6	 as a gift for them. If you're a breeder or a shelter worker, The Dog Training Revolution is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 perfect book for the new dog parent. This book combined with my Dog Training Revolution videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=226.5s	226.5	 on YouTube is the best value anywhere in the world when it comes to learning how to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=231.7s	231.7	 everything. It's available immediately to order and I'm going to have all the links in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=235.6s	235.6	 description where you can pick up your very own copy today. Think about sharing this video too,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=239.8s	239.8	 so that we can get modern dog training techniques into the hands and minds of dog lovers everywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=244.8s	244.8	 I've got some great episodes of The Dog Training Revolution in the pipeline, so make sure you are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=248.8s	248.8	 subscribed to my channel. I couldn't be more appreciative of all of you, the viewers,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_X-0VJJUL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=527&pp=iAQB&t=252.5s	252.5	 who made this book possible. For that reason, this book is dedicated to you.
