https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to show you a really cool way to achieve clear communication between you and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=9.3s	9.3	 These videos sponsored by the dog on good clicker company
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=12.7s	12.7	 Click thumbs up for Remy the boy can spaniel and if you're new subscribe to my channel and be a part of YouTube's number
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=18.3s	18.3	 One dog training community some of you might have heard about clicker training others of you might not have today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=23.2s	23.2	 I'm going to show you how fun and easy clicker training can be in fact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=26.9s	26.9	 It's particularly effective because it teaches you as the person how to be really effective at one of the most important parts of teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=33.1s	33.1	 Your dog which is timing. I mean you could have the smartest dog in the world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=36.5s	36.5	 But if you can't effectively in extremely certain terms let them know what you like when you like it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=42.6s	42.6	 You're going to delay progress very simply put this sound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=46.3s	46.3	 Means good dog you've earned a great reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=49.7s	49.7	 I'll show you how to get your dog to make that connection in seconds in just a bit so why a clicker?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=55.1s	55.1	 Why not just good dog well first a concise sound like this may be more attention grabbing to many dogs and second you might find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=62.5s	62.5	 That your thumb is a bit quicker than your tongue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 Especially if you're a beginner which will give you a leg up and don't worry you won't need the clicker forever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=69.9s	69.9	 Eventually you'll be able to say a word like yes or good for this lesson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=73.4s	73.4	 You're obviously going to need a clicker and a way to have hands-free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=76.4s	76.4	 Access to your treats so that you can focus on interacting with and teaching your dog instead of fumbling with treats everywhere the rapid rewards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=83.5s	83.5	 Treat pouch is the best I've seen it really has everything you possibly want in a treat pouch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 And you can get it and your clickers from the same place, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=90.9s	90.9	 You can store your treats extra clickers keys anything you'd want and there are even multiple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=96.0s	96.0	 Compartments if you wanted to use say dog treats or have some deli meat in the other compartment that way you can keep things really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=102.2s	102.2	 Interesting for your dog. I love this magnetic closure here, too. They can just push it shut
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=106.3s	106.3	 What's great about these is that you can have them customized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=108.7s	108.7	 Super durable very affordable and the dog on good clicker company has virtually any bag you could ever desire for any outing with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=116.1s	116.1	 I'll have a link in the description where you can pick up your rapid rewards treat pouch and your clickers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=120.8s	120.8	 So let's quickly go over how to condition your dog to understand that this click means they've done something great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=125.9s	125.9	 This is really easy. All you have to do is click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=130.6s	130.6	 Give her a treat. We're not asking her to do anything right now click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=134.9s	134.9	 Give her a treat really small really tasty treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=138.1s	138.1	 That's the key because you want to be able to treat a whole bunch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=141.5s	141.5	 Eventually your dog is going to start to understand that hey every time that clicker goes off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=145.3s	145.3	 I get something really awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=146.9s	146.9	 You might even notice that your dog automatically starts to sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=150.5s	150.5	 When you click and the reason they'll do that is because most dogs have the association of being asked to sit for a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=156.7s	156.7	 So that's your cue that your dog is starting to understand that the click means they're going to get an awesome reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=162.5s	162.5	 So how would we apply this in real world training? Well, let's see how Remy is doing with her lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 Yes, you might have noticed there that I say yes with the click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=172.2s	172.2	 That's how I can start planning to see that. Yes, and the clicking sound are synonymous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=177.5s	177.5	 Yes, she got up. I like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=179.5s	179.5	 Let your dog know anytime you like even the smallest move they make the clicker really enables you to get great at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=186.1s	186.1	 Precision timing the moment your dog does something great. So remember the click just means good dog. I like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=191.3s	191.3	 You might notice a lot of clicking in this lesson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=193.7s	193.7	 And that's how a good clicker training session should look and sound find little things to reward for often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=199.6s	199.6	 Especially when starting out take lie down for example, since this is a fairly new thing for Remy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=204.8s	204.8	 It's a great idea to click her as she's on the way into a down as well as when she's achieved the final lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=212.1s	212.1	 So clicking twice for similar actions is totally fine. In fact, it's even recommended. I'll tell you what let's teach Remy something new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=219.4s	219.4	 Let's teach her how to touch my hand now teaching your dog to touch your hand on cue is a really fun brain game for both
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=225.6s	225.6	 You and your dog it allows you to practice your clicker training and to really achieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=230.1s	230.1	 Fantastic communication with your dog any exercise that helps with that is something you should do often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=234.7s	234.7	 So the first thing I want to do is have a treat in one hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=237.7s	237.7	 And what do you think I'm gonna do when she goes to investigate the tree?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=240.8s	240.8	 We want her to brainstorm and come to the conclusion that touching my hand just like that leads to an awesome reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=247.6s	247.6	 Just let her think it out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=248.9s	248.9	 This is why it's so much better to encourage your dog to think than to force them to do things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=253.4s	253.4	 I just want her to think it through so right there. You can read her like a book. Look at her see that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=258.7s	258.7	 That's very good. I'm gonna avoid saying anything right now. Yes boy. She's on fire right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=263.9s	263.9	 Let's see if we can get her to touch my hand without the treat now. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=271.3s	271.3	 And she's going into her down right there cuz that's worked in the past
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=274.5s	274.5	 So it's normal for your dog to attempt to brainstorm things like this. That's yes. That's what I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=280.0s	280.0	 That's a good one and you can see she's going through all these thought processes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=284.6s	284.6	 What this does though for the future is it teaches your dog how to think how to really exist?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=289.8s	289.8	 autonomously without having to be told what to do every step of the way and it's so fun to watch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=295.3s	295.3	 Communication like this just blossom before your eyes when you're teaching a dog now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=300.0s	300.0	 Let's mix things up a little bit and let me start to vary how my hand is so she starts to generalize that touch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=305.4s	305.4	 It doesn't mean just touch it when I'm in this position. It can mean when I'm in this position touch it. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=311.9s	311.9	 Touch it and if your dog's a little confused at first just be patient stick with it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=316.3s	316.3	 You may get this in five minutes or it may take a few days. It just depends on your dog. What are you doing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=322.0s	322.0	 Yeah, nice work. That's awesome. There's no treat in this hand. So she's not jumping towards the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=328.3s	328.3	 She's actually jumping towards the object in this case my hand that I want her to interact with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=333.4s	333.4	 Help me make more videos like this by supporting us on patreon. That's our crowdfunding campaign
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=338.2s	338.2	 I turn your money into videos like this so that the public has access to free dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=343.6s	343.6	 No matter where you live and you can give Remy a click by clicking thumbs up if you think she did a great job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=348.8s	348.8	 Make sure you're subscribed to my channel. I have lots of fun videos coming and check out the dog on good clicker company
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=354.4s	354.4	 I'll have a link to their website in the description of this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=357.3s	357.3	 Hope you guys enjoyed the video if you have a new puppy or you're planning on getting one see teacher puppy to walk on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=363.1s	363.1	 A leash now if your puppy is going through the puppy biting stage see my other video with Remy on that issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=369.4s	369.4	 It's a really good one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=370.2s	370.2	 Of course potty training is a must for your new dog my video with BB8 the Alaskan click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=375.7s	375.7	 I will show you everything you need to know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=378.3s	378.3	 Thank you so much for subscribing and thank you to everyone who supports these videos on patreon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UM75FUjuKOg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=530&pp=iAQB&t=387.3s	387.3	 You
