https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I know right away that this is going to be an uphill battle and plenty of people are going to say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 Zach, you have no idea what you're talking about. Kind of used to that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=8.2s	8.2	 But social media is all about conversations and sharing our perspectives, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=12.6s	12.6	 For all things dog training, like and follow. Part of the reason I wanted to make this is because I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 keep going through TikTok or Instagram and I keep saying, these are five breeds that might be right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=21.9s	21.9	 for you. And general breed advice isn't the worst thing. I just feel like the points that I'm making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=28.6s	28.6	 in this video are not brought up enough in those type of videos. In fact, I think there's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=33.8s	33.8	 significant amount of people in my own profession, dog training, who will see this issue quite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=39.0s	39.0	 differently than I do. And I'm hoping to get feedback from everyone on this because if I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=42.9s	42.9	 lost my mind, I'd like to be aware of it. In the field of dog training, you know that there are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=47.3s	47.3	 things that many of us feel can be improved, especially when it comes to how we categorize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=51.6s	51.6	 and how we perceive dogs. And I can understand why you're wondering what could possibly be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=56.1s	56.1	 bothering me about this topic. Let's discuss how we might be putting too much emphasis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=61.6s	61.6	 on a dog breed's characteristics rather than considering each dog first and foremost as an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=68.3s	68.3	 individual. Dogs are living beings. They are not products. And their behavior is influenced by a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=73.8s	73.8	 combination of their genetics, their environment, and their upbringing. I want to give you a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=78.1s	78.1	 examples of why stereotyping dog breeds can be potentially harmful. It could lead to breed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=83.2s	83.2	 discrimination, making it difficult for some dogs to find homes. Stereotypes can create
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=87.7s	87.7	 unrealistic expectations for people. And that can ultimately lead to disappointment and frustration
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=93.3s	93.3	 if a dog doesn't fit the mold. Focusing on breed stereotypes too much can distract from responsible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=99.3s	99.3	 dog guardianship and their training. And those two things are pretty critical when it comes to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=104.6s	104.6	 raising a dog and showing them how to exist in the world they live in. I definitely want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=109.0s	109.0	 acknowledge that selective breeding has yielded dogs that, as a general population, do have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=115.2s	115.2	 certain characteristics. Border collies are famous for herding sheep. Dachshunds are famous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=119.0s	119.0	 for hunting badgers. Take a Labrador, for example. They're known for being super friendly, really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 outgoing and energetic. But just like any other dog, they can be shy. They can behave aggressively.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=128.8s	128.8	 They can have moderate personalities. They can have no interest in retrieving. Pit bull-type
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=133.9s	133.9	 dogs often get a reputation for behaving aggressively. And while some do behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=138.3s	138.3	 aggressively, others turn out to be amazing, wonderful family dogs. Boxers come to mind as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=143.4s	143.4	 having an extreme variance to me, just anecdotally. I never know what I'm going to get with a boxer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=148.2s	148.2	 Sometimes I'm going to get a really high energy, hyper crazy dog that just wants to play and lick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=152.9s	152.9	 me. Other times I'll just get one and they'll be like, I'm just going to lay down here. You do you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=158.2s	158.2	 It's also common for a lot of us dog trainers to get fixated on a specific breed just for one reason
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=163.4s	163.4	 or another. I personally am very attracted to the breed of border collies. I've had four of them in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=168.5s	168.5	 my life now and not a one of them was like the other in their personality. They were all completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=173.7s	173.7	 different experiences to raise and train. I am attracted to the agility of border collies and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=178.5s	178.5	 their ability to be athletic provided they're cut out for that. And that's why I do a number of tests
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=183.4s	183.4	 with puppies to see if they're interested in playing to kind of get an idea of their personality.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=188.4s	188.4	 I can't tell you how many times I've heard that beagles are super stubborn and hard to train.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=193.1s	193.1	 And keep in mind, if you think that it's likely because you just need to brush up on your education
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=198.1s	198.1	 about how dogs learn. And through modern methods, we can likely make tons of progress with even the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=203.4s	203.4	 most stubborn dogs. Some people stereotype poodles as being these frou-frou, just pretty dogs. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=210.2s	210.2	 there's nothing wrong with that. But very often poodles are extremely athletic, impressive, gifted,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=216.5s	216.5	 intelligent animals. And I say this as someone who is not an expert in dog breeding, but selective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 breeding does have very significant limitations in how certain dogs personalities will develop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 Even within the same litter, sometimes you have dogs that are not cut out for the same types of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=234.3s	234.3	 work. So what can we do to embrace our dog's individualism and celebrate them for exactly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=240.1s	240.1	 who they are? Dogs aren't like computers or cars with a fixed set of traits that are guaranteed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=245.4s	245.4	 for them. And their personalities are every bit as varied as human beings personalities are from one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=251.0s	251.0	 another. So let's say you're considering a dog and you're thinking about a specific breed. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=256.1s	256.1	 totally fine to have a breed stereotype on the back burner in your mind when you're looking at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=261.1s	261.1	 individual dogs. My tips would be to focus on the individual dog's energy level, their temperament,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=267.0s	267.0	 and that particular dog's training needs. I'd say keep a really open mind when you are looking for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=272.9s	272.9	 a dog, whether you're buying one or adopting one, because you might have a breed in mind. But for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=277.4s	277.4	 many people, especially for average pet guardians, you'll find that going to your local shelter has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=283.0s	283.0	 a really good chance of yielding you a dog with an optimal personality who might be a mix of all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=287.8s	287.8	 kinds of dog breeds. As an industry, I think we could do a better job educating the public to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=291.9s	291.9	 focus on the individual dog and that dog's life experiences rather than assigning so many traits
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=298.4s	298.4	 solely to a dog's breed or breed mix. That's not to say that some dogs don't fulfill their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=304.5s	304.5	 stereotypes quite faithfully. Have you ever met a dog that did not conform to what they were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=310.1s	310.1	 supposed to be? Does your dog's breed or their breed mix fulfill their stereotype? All dogs of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=315.9s	315.9	 all breed or breed mixes need training. I want to share with you one of my favorite dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=320.6s	320.6	 products. Pup Box sends evidence-based monthly training guides front and back every month along
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=325.6s	325.6	 with the things you need to train your dog. Whoa. Hello. To help you with things like crate training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=329.4s	329.4	 potty training, socialization, grooming tips. This one has leash walking tips. Toys come out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=334.6s	334.6	 and Nersha's ready. This box really works. That's an engaged dog. These supplies, toys, and treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=340.2s	340.2	 are perfect for positive reinforcement dog training. That's what's on the inside of this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=344.1s	344.1	 If you're dealing with teething or unwanted chewing, these are the bomb. This is an unbelievable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=349.3s	349.3	 offer. You can get a Pup Box for $5. Use the code ZACH5 at Pup Box to get your first Pup Box at $5.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IG9Gkg--KL8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=356.3s	356.3	 For all things dog training, like and follow.
