https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Did you accidentally get a biting piranha instead of a puppy? If so, keep watching.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=12.5s	12.5	 Some of the most impassioned emails I get from people are those who are having issues with extreme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=17.7s	17.7	 puppy biters. Today you're going to meet Remy, the nine week old puppy biting boykin spaniel,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=22.1s	22.1	 and I'm going to give you all the info you need to get this issue under control. Click thumbs up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=27.2s	27.2	 for puppies and click subscribe to learn how to teach them. Seriously, if you have a new puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=31.9s	31.9	 subscribing to my channel right now is the absolute best thing you can do. Having a puppy means you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=37.8s	37.8	 need to train them, play with them, and spend lots of time with them. PepFlo isn't just another place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=42.6s	42.6	 to get dog food, it's a completely different way to get your dog food. See, with PepFlo, you order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=47.3s	47.3	 your food one time and then you tell them how often you want to deliver. Now, of course, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=51.6s	51.6	 can edit your delivery schedule over time as you get a feel for how much food your new puppy is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=56.2s	56.2	 eating. You literally don't have to remember to buy your dog's food ever. Now, if you want to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=60.6s	60.6	 PepFlo a shot and save 20% off of your first auto ship order, I'm going to have a special link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=65.4s	65.4	 and a coupon code in the description of this video. I use it, I love it, and I think you guys will too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=71.1s	71.1	 When working with a new puppy, it's important to get them used to being touched really firmly. See,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=76.2s	76.2	 the more tolerant the puppy is of being touched like this, the less likely they are to bite us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=80.8s	80.8	 and other animals. The first few weeks of working with a dog should really be dedicated to building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 communication with them. Therefore, you can definitely expect a pretty significant disconnect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=90.9s	90.9	 between what your puppy wants to do versus what you want them to do. For example, you might think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=95.8s	95.8	 you're just going up to pet your dog, but they might view this as an invitation to really play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 enthusiastically with you. Puppies bite for two major reasons, because they're very smart, curious
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=105.6s	105.6	 animals and they like to engage the world around them. And since they don't have hands, that makes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=109.5s	109.5	 a lot of sense. And because they're teething, teething puppies like to bite a lot. The less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=114.9s	114.9	 pens of energy that your dog has, the less likely it is that they're going to be really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=118.3s	118.3	 insistent biters. First, I recommend that you're giving your puppy almost daily exercise, about 20
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 to 40 minutes first thing in the morning, and then maybe 20 to 30 minutes later in the afternoon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=128.1s	128.1	 if necessary. Plus, regular exercise has a whole host of benefits. I'll let you in on a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=133.4s	133.4	 secret. Behaviors that you can predict, especially those that you don't like, can be the easiest to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=138.9s	138.9	 resolve. Learning how to intercept your puppy before they do something you don't like is an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 extremely powerful tool. I'll show you what I mean in a minute, but for now understand that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=147.2s	147.2	 address puppy biting in two major ways. You can show them how to properly play with a toy, or you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=152.4s	152.4	 can show them what you'd rather they do instead of bite you. Both of the exercises I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=156.6s	156.6	 cover today have separate but equally important benefits. So don't just do one of them, do them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=161.1s	161.1	 both often. A teething puppy is extra enthusiastic about using their mouth to grab stuff. So let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=166.5s	166.5	 take advantage of that and both show her the right things to bite and show her how to play with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=170.8s	170.8	 toy which can be very powerful for future training sessions. Since I know that Remy is likely to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=176.8s	176.8	 in a bitey mood right now when I engage her, I want to come prepared. I want to make sure that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=180.8s	180.8	 have something that is acceptable to bite on, like this taxi cab or this rope over here. This does a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=186.4s	186.4	 couple of things. We're showing her what's acceptable to bite on and we're showing her how to play with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=191.2s	191.2	 a toy. And when your dog knows how to play with a toy properly, this will be a really powerful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=195.6s	195.6	 training tool moving forward. Look at this hippie. Kidding. Now of course it's worth noting that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 you engage your dog with a toy like this and play with them, you're likely to amp them up a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=207.4s	207.4	 But that's not always a bad thing. See your dog has to get rid of their energy in one form or another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=212.4s	212.4	 and being able to get their energy out and up on your terms rather than theirs is very much in your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=217.9s	217.9	 best interest. When you do decide to interact with your dog with a toy like this, be prepared to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 it through for several minutes. Give them the time to understand and comprehend what you're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=226.4s	226.4	 and to really start enjoying the whole process. Your second major option when engaging a fierce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=231.2s	231.2	 puppy biter is to initiate a fun training session with them. Either teach them something new or work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 on something they already know. The beauty of this exercise is that we're going to give her an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=240.4s	240.4	 alternative behavior to do instead of just biting me impulsively because she feels like it. Today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=245.4s	245.4	 I'm using boiled chicken as my reward for Remy. She's already into a sit here. I love that. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=250.6s	250.6	 now I'm going to encourage her to go into a lie down. Good job. And you might notice that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=255.8s	255.8	 you're interacting with your dog like this and you're using treats to reward them that the biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=260.0s	260.0	 will start to go down automatically just because when a dog is in food mode instead of play mode,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=265.4s	265.4	 they're less likely to bite so vigorously. Your attention span is so good. That's all a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=270.1s	270.1	 really wants to do when they're biting you is to interact with you. We just need to show them the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=273.9s	273.9	 right way to interact with us. Like you're an attention spaniel. If you find that your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=278.6s	278.6	 really biting and they're biting you a lot when you go to treat them, try treating them open palm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=283.1s	283.1	 like this. That'll make it a lot less likely that you'll get bit while you're training your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=287.6s	287.6	 You don't just have to work on sit or lie down. You can work on things like roll over, play dead,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=292.2s	292.2	 speak, whatever you want. The point is you're teaching your dog to look to you for direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=298.2s	298.2	 in general rather than just behaving impulsively and biting because that's what they want to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=302.2s	302.2	 Now let's talk about some common issues that you might encounter when teaching your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=307.0s	307.0	 Puppy biting doesn't typically go away overnight so it's really important to stay the course.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=311.7s	311.7	 But one way to measure whether or not you're on the right track is to look for instances of licking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=317.1s	317.1	 where your puppy used to bite. You'll start to see that these instances will be a lot more common
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=322.2s	322.2	 over time if you keep up your training. Puppy biting can take anywhere from a few days to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=327.0s	327.0	 couple of months with the more extreme biters. In those extreme cases, just focus on gradual
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=332.1s	332.1	 progress from week to week. So what do you do if your puppy just starts biting you and you're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=336.6s	336.6	 even expecting it? Well, you can promptly engage them in a training session much like we've done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=341.5s	341.5	 today but you'll have to snap into training mode and make sure your mind is fully prepared to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=346.0s	346.0	 your attention to your dog. But if you're unable or unwilling to teach your dog at that particular
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=351.0s	351.0	 moment, just put them in another room for a couple of minutes, let them calm down and then you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=355.0s	355.0	 bring them back out and try again or take them on a walk to get some of that energy out. But time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=359.8s	359.8	 outs like this should really only last for about a minute or two. For those of you that have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=363.4s	363.4	 children under the age of about 10 or so, understand that it's your responsibility to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=367.8s	367.8	 teach your puppy how to not bite them, not your kids. Help us continue to revolutionize dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=373.4s	373.4	 by becoming part of the revolution and making a monthly contribution of any amount you'd like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=378.1s	378.1	 our crowdfunding campaign on Patreon. I'll have a link in the description. All of us with the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=382.2s	382.2	 training revolution believe so strongly in making sure that everyone has all of the info they need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=387.0s	387.0	 to teach their dog everything from day one completely free of charge. Click thumbs up for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=392.7s	392.7	 Remy if you think she did a good job and of course make sure you're subscribed. They have got so many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=396.6s	396.6	 awesome videos coming your way and set up automatic pet food delivery at petflow.com. I'll have all of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=402.2s	402.2	 the details to everything I've talked about in the video in the description below. See you guys next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=407.0s	407.0	 time. Oh and take a look at these other videos. Remy is coming along so well. Now if you have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=412.0s	412.0	 new puppy, here are some other videos that you might like. Check out the best way to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=415.9s	415.9	 new puppy walking nicely on a leash. Unwanted barking can be a tricky thing to resolve. I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=421.3s	421.3	 offer you some advice on that topic too. Of course if you need assistance with house training, see my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=426.9s	426.9	 video on that topic and you and your dog will be on the right track in no time. Thank you so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLZ2jNO5LQM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=532&pp=iAQB&t=432.3s	432.3	 for watching my videos and subscribing and I can't wait to see you guys in the next video.
