https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 If your dog isn't great with other dogs or you ever go to the vet with them or you just want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=4.0s	4.0	 feel more confident when you go in public, today I'm going to show you your first steps.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=13.7s	13.7	 Most people think that muzzles are scary or for bad dogs, but today I'm going to show you why every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=18.9s	18.9	 dog should be comfortable wearing a muzzle. Click thumbs up for rescue dogs and click subscribe to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=23.3s	23.3	 learn how to teach them. Today you're going to meet Daniel, loving father to four rescue dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=27.6s	27.6	 and of course Molly who occasionally acts out towards other dogs. We're going to get Molly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=32.1s	32.1	 warmed up with a sit and a stay while I tell you why automatic pet food delivery is a must-have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=38.3s	38.3	 service if you have a dog. Simply put, you get to stay home, stay out of traffic, and let those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=42.8s	42.8	 heavy bags of dog food come to you. Stay. Good girl, you're doing a great job. Your food is always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=48.6s	48.6	 there when you need it and you don't even have to remember to order it, not to mention you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=52.3s	52.3	 supporting content like this. I'll have a special link and a coupon code in the description that'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=61.1s	61.1	 give you 20% off of your first order. Molly, that was a fantastic stay. Come here. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=70.3s	70.3	 Daniel, tell me what's going on with Molly. What issues do you have? Well, we really kind of got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=74.9s	74.9	 two things going on with her. The first is that she's not interacting well with other dogs. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=79.9s	79.9	 shown a little aggression and just kind of gotten out of hand a few times. Okay. The other thing we've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=84.6s	84.6	 been dealing with is her leash walking skills are very poor. She pulls. She's like a sled dog. What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=91.0s	91.0	 happens if she encounters a dog on a walk? It is quite an episode. We were walking in the neighborhood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 recently and a dog came out of a house and it was off a leash and they got into a pretty intense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=102.6s	102.6	 altercation. It was a good 30-second one-minute dog fight where we're trying to pull them off of each
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=107.5s	107.5	 other. So there's a couple of issues going on here then that we probably need to address in a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=111.8s	111.8	 specific order. I mean, you never know what you're going to encounter in public, whether it's an off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=117.2s	117.2	 leash dog or any other situation that you're just not prepared for. So we want to make sure that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 do everything we can to keep everyone safe. And really it's a good idea to have any dog comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=126.4s	126.4	 wearing a muzzle, even if it's just for the vet or the groomer. Today we'll work on getting her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=130.2s	130.2	 comfortable wearing a muzzle and in a future video we'll address her social skills while on a walk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 How does that sound? That sounds great. Let's go. See the goal with muzzle training is to get them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 want to put their nose into the muzzle rather than just forcing it onto their face. This is a basket
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=147.4s	147.4	 muzzle. I really like these muzzles because they're nice and open. You can easily give your dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 treats in them and they can also drink water when they're wearing it. So these are the most humane
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=156.6s	156.6	 muzzles that I'm aware of. But don't leave a muzzle on your dog for too long a period and definitely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=161.1s	161.1	 don't leave it on them unsupervised. So how does one go about getting a dog to voluntarily and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=167.4s	167.4	 enthusiastically want to wear a muzzle? Well we're about to find out. The first thing I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=172.9s	172.9	 want to do is place the muzzle on the ground. I love that she's sniffing it right there. She reacted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=177.1s	177.1	 well. So guess what I'm going to do? I'm going to give her some chicken. I want her to be in a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=181.6s	181.6	 mood around this muzzle. Chicken has a funny way of doing that. I like that she's not showing any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 stress about it and there's no reason for her to be stressed out by this because I haven't created
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=190.6s	190.6	 an experience that's unpleasant. She's in a generally good mood and I want to keep it that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=194.1s	194.1	 way. Let's get Molly to use that smart brain of hers and see if she can get the chicken when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=198.7s	198.7	 put it right here on the end of the muzzle. She went right into it. Did you see that? I love it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=204.2s	204.2	 when that happens. She makes it look easy. Look at that. The slower you go with muzzle training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=209.1s	209.1	 the faster your progress is going to be. Making your dog want to do something so much more profound,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=214.7s	214.7	 so much more effective. Look at that tail wagging. No stress at all that I can detect anyway.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=220.1s	220.1	 Good job. I'm just letting tiny pieces of chicken go through my finger real slowly here. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=225.8s	225.8	 letting her nibble on it just to kind of get her comfortable. I'm only supporting from the bottom.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=230.0s	230.0	 I'm in no way forcing or pushing this muzzle on her face right now. You see that? And I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=234.7s	234.7	 going to let go of it. Hey, that was good. Nice work. Good job. By letting go of it, I'm not rushing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=240.6s	240.6	 the process. I'm doing it one step at a time. In general, it should be a pretty smooth transition.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=244.9s	244.9	 Once your dog has that positive association with getting the chicken as you lure them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=249.0s	249.0	 you ought to be able to kind of coax them to put their snout into the muzzle without having to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=253.6s	253.6	 lure them. I'm going to hold out the muzzle. I'm going to let her brainstorm. Yes. Good. Really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=257.8s	257.8	 work. Right there. She thought for a second. You could see it in her eyes and she's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=261.3s	261.3	 oh, I know what you want. I'll just put my nose in there. But again, I'm still kind of making sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 that the chicken is there for her. But now I'm going to try and reward her after she puts her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=271.7s	271.7	 nose into the muzzle. Yes. Good girl. Here. Yes. See how I let her take her nose out of the muzzle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=278.1s	278.1	 and then I rewarded her because I want her enthusiastically just being like, okay, I'm ready.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=282.2s	282.2	 So I think we're at the point now where we can start to teach a new phrase to Molly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=285.9s	285.9	 maybe something like put your muzzle on. Let's try. Just waiting for her to brainstorm. Put your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=290.5s	290.5	 muzzle on. Very good. Nice work. Let's find out what happens if I ask her to put her muzzle on now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=296.2s	296.2	 in advance. Put your muzzle on. Yes. Excellent job. Really good work. Now my next step is securing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=305.1s	305.1	 this collar portion around here. I don't want to do it all at once. So I kind of want to do the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=309.0s	309.0	 thing. I adjusted with the muzzle and go nice and slow. So step one, I'm just going to put it around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=313.8s	313.8	 here, let go of it, let her know that can happen. No big deal. Go ahead and give her a reward. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=318.6s	318.6	 I'm going to try and see if I can secure the collar around her neck. Will you sit? Very good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=326.6s	326.6	 She's getting a little weird there. So I'm just going to go ahead and ease up on her and go nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=330.4s	330.4	 and slow. But look, you can see it's actually hanging from her right now. Good job. Sit. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=336.4s	336.4	 Let's see if we can get her to put her muzzle on. Hey, put your muzzle on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=339.8s	339.8	 And then of course over here, you can put this part on. If your dog was stressing a little bit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 you would want to go real slow with this, but Molly's doing terrific. Let's take her outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=348.7s	348.7	 and see how she does.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=357.0s	357.0	 Molly's very interested in that cat right now. So I want to make sure that she keeps her distance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=362.0s	362.0	 Ideally, we need to teach our dogs to listen to us no matter how distracted they are. Come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=366.3s	366.3	 No, ma'am. Come on over here. Come here. Good girl. Very good. I'm just going to walk back and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=371.2s	371.2	 forth here in front of the house just to get her comfortable wearing the muzzle outside in a public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=375.9s	375.9	 setting. You can see there's a lot of tension on the leash and we want to teach her how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=380.6s	380.6	 walk more politely than this, but that'll be in our next video. Educating the public on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=385.7s	385.7	 responsible modern dog training is the central goal of the dog training revolution. Help me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=390.0s	390.0	 continue to do this by supporting me on Patreon and contributing any amount you'd like to the cause.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=395.5s	395.5	 Make sure you click thumbs up if you thought she did a good job and subscribe so you don't miss
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=399.4s	399.4	 her future video. Set up automatic pet food delivery with petflow.com. We'll have all of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=403.4s	403.4	 the details in the description. All right. See you next time. Let's go. Come on. Whoa.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=409.7s	409.7	 Oh boy. Boy, we should do your leash walking video right now. Goodness. I can't wait to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=414.6s	414.6	 with Molly again. In my next video, I'll be showing you how to resolve puppy biting once and for all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=419.4s	419.4	 with Remy the Boykin Spaniel. In the meantime, check out how to house train your dog with BB-8,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=424.9s	424.9	 the awesome Alaskan Kleekeye or the art of communicating with your dog with Miss May,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=430.5s	430.5	 the German Tortoise Pointer. If your dog seizes every opportunity to steal food off of the counter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7skDA82lvw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=533&pp=iAQB&t=435.6s	435.6	 or table, see my lesson on that too. Thank you so much and we'll see you guys next time.
