https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 If your dog has ever gotten lost, you'll know what a nightmare this can be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=3.4s	3.4	 In today's video, I'm going to give you some advice on how to keep your dog from getting lost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=7.2s	7.2	 and what to do if they do become lost. If you're new to my channel, hit subscribe right now. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=12.2s	12.2	 way you'll see all of our future videos and click thumbs up. Let's start with a no brainer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=16.0s	16.0	 Get your dog microchipped. It's easy, it's cheap, and doing this one thing will greatly increase
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=21.5s	21.5	 the odds that you will be reunited with your dog if they become lost. A microchip is a small radio
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=26.1s	26.1	 frequency identification implant, which is about the size of a grain of rice, and it's a must for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=31.0s	31.0	 all dog parents. Your veterinarian will inject the microchip for you. The total cost is about 45 US
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=36.7s	36.7	 dollars, and that includes registration too. Once your dog is microchipped, any shelter or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=41.1s	41.1	 veterinarian can easily scan your dog and get your information. The majority of lost dogs are quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=46.8s	46.8	 returned to their homes as long as they're microchipped. You'll also want to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 you have the best equipment for your dog. I recommend that you get a collar like this. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=55.1s	55.1	 can see there how it snaps, unlike a buckle, which can come undone a lot more easily. A reflective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=60.7s	60.7	 collar is ideal. That way your dog's a little bit more easy to spot in the dark. They also make GPS
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=66.2s	66.2	 collars, which allow you to track your dog with your smartphone. However, GPS collars often need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=71.6s	71.6	 to be recharged pretty frequently, and they're not foolproof. Don't settle for what your local pet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=76.5s	76.5	 supply store has though. Make sure you have the best possible selection of leashes, collars, treats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=82.1s	82.1	 toys, food, and all of your other pet supplies. Our favorite place to shop for our dogs is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 PetFlow.com. If you haven't yet experienced PetFlow's automatic pet food delivery service,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=92.2s	92.2	 give it a shot. All you have to do is choose the brand of dog food you want. They literally have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=96.4s	96.4	 hundreds and hundreds of brands of food, and how often you want it delivered to your house. I love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=101.0s	101.0	 it. I think you will too, or I wouldn't recommend it. Just visit PetFlow.com slash Zach George,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=106.1s	106.1	 and I'll have a special coupon code in the description where you can get 20% off of your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=110.6s	110.6	 first order. Along with the collar, you'll want to have an ID tag engraved with at least your phone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=115.4s	115.4	 number and preferably your home address too. Next, in order to prevent your dog from becoming lost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=120.5s	120.5	 in the first place, prioritize training. Make sure they know all of the basics, especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=125.4s	125.4	 stay and come when called. Now I'll have a playlist in the description that will show you how to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=130.4s	130.4	 your dog all of the basics in order that is completely free. If your dog does become lost,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=135.5s	135.5	 it's easy to feel helpless, but there are a lot of steps that you can take to make sure that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=140.1s	140.1	 get reunited with your dog as quickly as possible. Don't just call, go to every shelter in your area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=146.3s	146.3	 The Humane Society recommends every shelter within a 60-mile radius. Ask to see all of the stray dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=152.1s	152.1	 that have been brought into the shelter to verify that your dog isn't there. These shelters deal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=156.7s	156.7	 with hundreds of dogs, so it's very possible they might misidentify your dog if you just call.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 Try and visit your local shelters daily if possible. And make sure you bring some lost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=165.7s	165.7	 posters to leave. Contact your vet immediately. If your dog is wearing the rabies tag,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 a good Samaritan might return your dog to the vet listed on the rabies ID tag. If your dog has been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 lost for more than a couple of hours, it's time to make a really good lost dog poster. Now there are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=179.7s	179.7	 some things to remember in order to make sure that your poster has the impact that you intend it to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=184.3s	184.3	 have. Choose a good, clear photo of your dog to feature on the poster. If you don't already have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=189.4s	189.4	 one, it's a good idea to take a clear, well-lit picture right now so that you'll have it if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=194.5s	194.5	 ever need it. Color photos are preferable, but if printing and color is too expensive,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=198.9s	198.9	 make sure you pick a photo that looks good and clear in black and white. Use a large font for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=203.6s	203.6	 the word lost and your phone number because these are the two most important pieces of information
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=208.6s	208.6	 on the poster. Your phone number should be easy to read from a distance of at least 10 feet so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=212.7s	212.7	 that people can see it from their cars. Also include the last location and date your dog was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=217.3s	217.3	 seen and any other information that might help identify or catch them, including whether or not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=221.8s	221.8	 your dog is likely to come to strangers or any medical issues. For example, if your dog is likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=226.6s	226.6	 to run from strangers, put, do not chase, call immediately. Now it's your choice whether or not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=232.0s	232.0	 you want to offer a reward, but this may help motivate people to get your dog back to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=236.6s	236.6	 Once your flyer is made, print as many as possible. Give them to all of your neighbors. Post them all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=241.8s	241.8	 over your neighborhood. Include them in local businesses that have bulletin boards. Just get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=246.1s	246.1	 creative. Facebook is an extremely powerful tool for finding your lost dog because you can reach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=251.4s	251.4	 the majority of dog lovers in your community very quickly. Share an image of your flyer on Facebook
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=256.5s	256.5	 with local dog rescue groups, doggy daycares, pet shops, and any other dog related businesses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=261.9s	261.9	 you can think of. These guys are usually really active on Facebook and willing to share lost dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=266.8s	266.8	 Update your posts daily to let people know that you're still searching for your dog too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=271.4s	271.4	 It's really important to empower dog lovers to have all of the information they need to have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=276.3s	276.3	 best possible relationship with their dog. If you want to help me spread the message of humane
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=281.0s	281.0	 positive training as well as other information like this, make a small monthly contribution to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=285.6s	285.6	 our Patreon campaign. Those funds go towards making videos like this and others that I've made.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 I really want to thank all of our current patrons. You guys make all of the difference. Give a thumbs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=295.8s	295.8	 up if you found this video helpful. Make sure you're subscribed too so that you can see every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=299.9s	299.9	 single video I ever make. And remember in the description, I'm going to have a playlist where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 you can learn how to teach your dog all the basics in order. That's completely free. And also the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=310.4s	310.4	 information to set up automatic pet food delivery with petflow.com slash Zach George. Hope you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1-jrN8qReM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=316.0s	316.0	 enjoyed it. We'll see you next time.
