https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This episode of the dog training revolution is crowdfunded by you and sponsored by PetFlow.com.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=24.0s	24.0	 If you have a dog that sees an open door as an invitation to bolt out into the road, then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=28.8s	28.8	 you're really going to enjoy today's lesson. I'm going to show you how to teach your dog not to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=32.4s	32.4	 run out of the door and to stay in your house. I'm also going to be covering the principle of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=36.5s	36.5	 preemption and why we have to know how to do this in order to have a well-behaved dog. Click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=41.3s	41.3	 thumbs up if you love dogs. Also, like me on Facebook. I'll have a link in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=45.6s	45.6	 And I'm so excited right now because the dog training revolution is over 200,000 subscribers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=49.5s	49.5	 strong. Make sure you subscribe so you see all of our future videos. If you haven't heard,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=55.0s	55.0	 PetFlow.com is revolutionizing the way to buy dog food. I think we can all agree that we have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=60.4s	60.4	 better things to do than to run to the store and buy dog food every time we run out. The benefit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 to getting your food from PetFlow.com slash Zach George is that you can choose a completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=70.2s	70.2	 customizable schedule so you can have your dog food shipped to you as often as you want. All
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=75.1s	75.1	 you have to do is pick your food and how often you want it sent to you. As most of you likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=79.2s	79.2	 already know, all establishments that sell dog food, well, they're not exactly equal. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=83.7s	83.7	 no way I'm going to find the brands of dog food. I feed my dog at my local grocery store,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 but PetFlow has hundreds of brands, even the harder to find organic and holistic foods. For
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=92.0s	92.0	 those of you that are interested in having your dog food auto shipped to you, make sure you enter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=95.7s	95.7	 code Zach 20 when you check out. That'll give you 20% off of your first auto ship order. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=101.6s	101.6	 let's go meet the beautiful Mona Lisa and her family. Logan Beverly. I had the honor of coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=108.8s	108.8	 over here and meeting Mona Lisa the other day. She is such a beautiful dog, full of energy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=113.2s	113.2	 really cool dog. But I'm curious, how did you come up with the name Mona Lisa? Well, I'm an artist
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=116.6s	116.6	 and my biggest inspiration is Leonardo da Vinci. You know, most beautiful painting by him is Mona
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 Lisa. I often will use the analogy of painting a portrait when showing people how to teach dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=126.0s	126.0	 When you go to create a new work of art, your mindset isn't such that it's let me hurry up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=131.2s	131.2	 get through this. It's taking your time and doing it nice. Wouldn't you agree with that? Oh yeah. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=135.7s	135.7	 mean, you know, you have to have your foundations and basics before you can even do anything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=139.5s	139.5	 Otherwise it looks like abstract expressionism, which is a bit, you know, all of our questions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=143.6s	143.6	 Were you not an abstract fan? Is that what you say? Um, not really. What is it about Mona Lisa that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=151.0s	151.0	 you were drawn to? Well, initially didn't have too much say in the fact that we were going to have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=155.2s	155.2	 Mona. I'd already had a dog my own. I kind of like the idea now that we have a dog that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=160.0s	160.0	 little different set than what I'm normally used to. I like that she's a little more active and she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=164.4s	164.4	 kind of challenges us. Surprisingly, you know, she got down some of a bit more, I guess, technically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=170.4s	170.4	 advanced tricks, you know, such as rollover shake and things like that. But the basics really kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=174.7s	174.7	 of struggled on one of them being stay and come uncalled. If we are getting groceries and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=179.3s	179.3	 door is cracked open, she'll go ahead and she'll just bolt and we'll spend an hour trying to chase
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=183.6s	183.6	 her down a busy street. It's definitely very unsettling when that happens. Running out of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=187.7s	187.7	 door is a completely natural thing for a dog to do. It's a completely new environment. I noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=192.4s	192.4	 you have a couple of dogs across the street as well, which probably complicate matters as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=196.5s	196.5	 well. I'd like to kind of see what her skill set is now, what you've taught her, because there are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=200.7s	200.7	 a few things you have to have in place before teaching a dog not to run out of the door. Why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=205.1s	205.1	 don't you go get Mona Lisa and let's take a look at what she can do. Sure. Oh my gosh. Oh man. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=211.9s	211.9	 All right. She's allowed to the first. She's just not allowed to like smother. I just don't want her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=216.4s	216.4	 to jump. I understand. Why didn't you show me what happens when you open the door? Keep her on leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=221.2s	221.2	 though. Cause we want to make sure we take precautions. Obviously. There we go. Now stand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=225.6s	225.6	 up and what is her default? Her default is just to go right out the door. Yeah. Just to go right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 out the door. Okay. Run. It's cat. Oh, there's a cat. Okay. All right. So here, I mean, this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 exactly what we have to deal with. Mona Lisa sees a cat right now across the street. And of course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=241.8s	241.8	 that's tempting for her. This is why outside is so exciting for our dogs. Call her, try and get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=247.5s	247.5	 to come inside without pulling her. Let me see what happens. Come on inside. Come on. And she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=253.4s	253.4	 saying absolutely no way. Look at that. She's saying, I'm not going to come in. So many people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=258.8s	258.8	 make the mistake of thinking that getting your dog to come to you after they run out of the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=263.6s	263.6	 is where you should start to address this. The point of failure though, isn't when they won't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=267.8s	267.8	 come back to you. The point of failure is when they run out in the first place. That's why we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=271.4s	271.4	 have to prioritize stay. We want our dogs holding a sit in front of an open door until we tell them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=277.2s	277.2	 it's okay to go outside. Teaching your dog not to run out of the front door requires us to do a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=281.6s	281.6	 few things. The three ingredients, as I like to think of them, are a basic stay, leaving a piece
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=287.0s	287.0	 of meat alone when we drop it and look at me. Now I like to combine those three things in order to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=291.8s	291.8	 teach a dog not to run out into the street. It seems a little weird, but I'll explain to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=296.0s	296.0	 what I mean. Would you mind demonstrating with me with Mona Lisa how she's doing on, I like the look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=301.5s	301.5	 on his face already, on leave it alone, look at me, and a basic stay. Let's start with stay. Sure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=309.8s	309.8	 Mona, sit. Stay, okay? Really good work. Really nice work. So come back and reward her for that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=318.4s	318.4	 Love it. Really good. The other important thing our dogs need to know is how to leave something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=322.1s	322.1	 alone when we drop it. The reason for that is we have to know that our dog can back off of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=326.8s	326.8	 minor distraction, like a piece of meat being dropped in front of them, before we can expect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=330.7s	330.7	 them to not run into the road. Something that's very exciting for them. Let's see how she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=334.4s	334.4	 with leave it. Leave it. Good job. Now pick that up and reward her. She did really good. I noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=341.4s	341.4	 how when you threw it down, she was staring right at the treat. Now she didn't go for it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=346.5s	346.5	 which is great, but ideally we want to be able to get her attention off of that treat and onto
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=351.6s	351.6	 our eyes. This time when you throw the treat down, try and get her attention up here onto your eyes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=356.6s	356.6	 Okay? In other words, we want her to know, yeah, there's a piece of meat right there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 but I still want you looking at me, even though I know you want that, because that's what we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=363.6s	363.6	 going to build on. We want to start small. Leave it. Look at me. Hey, move. Yes. Good. Right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=369.1s	369.1	 Now get that. I'm sorry. I got excited there, but it's those critical small moments like the moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=373.9s	373.9	 they start listening to you, you want to acknowledge that very quickly, not just with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=377.9s	377.9	 treat, but with some genuine love and energy too, which you're very good at. As people, we tend to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=382.3s	382.3	 try and do our really main training at the wrong times. I'll give you a couple of examples. When
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=387.3s	387.3	 you go to take your dog for a walk, if you have a dog that's ever pulled on a leash, you might have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=391.2s	391.2	 made the mistake of trying to teach your dog to walk nicely on the leash without pulling while on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=395.2s	395.2	 your normal walk. But the problem with that is oftentimes you have something to get done. You're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=399.6s	399.6	 on a schedule and you can't really focus on your dog 100%. That's why we want to make sure we set
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=405.0s	405.0	 up drills. Another good example is when you have company coming over and your dog jumps all over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=409.4s	409.4	 them and you passively try and teach them not to jump rather than giving them 100% of your attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=414.9s	414.9	 In order to teach your dog anything that's fairly sophisticated like staying when there's a cat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=419.4s	419.4	 outside of your front door, you'll need to make sure that you prepare them for that thoroughly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=424.1s	424.1	 ahead of time. So I'm going to work with Mona Lisa for a little bit, kind of give you guys an idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=427.9s	427.9	 of how to train this, you guys at home as well. So first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=432.4s	432.4	 give her a treat for almost no reason at all, just to let her know, look, I pay very well. I want you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=437.3s	437.3	 to be cooperative and I want to keep her motivated. I want to keep her into the training. Now I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=441.9s	441.9	 to ask her to leave this piece alone. We know that she already knows, leave it, leave it alone. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=448.8s	448.8	 Up here. Yes, very good. I didn't even say look at me right there. Getting her eyes on me was the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=454.5s	454.5	 most important thing. So I got her eyes on me while she was distracted. Now I think we're ready to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=460.4s	460.4	 kind of make it a little bit more challenging. Instead of dropping the meat this time though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=465.3s	465.3	 I'm going to give her a different distraction. It's called an open door. I also want you to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=470.0s	470.0	 that we have a safety net on here. We want to make sure that we have control of our dogs. We don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=473.6s	473.6	 want to leave anything to chance. So if she does bolt out the front door, I'm in a position to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=478.0s	478.0	 sure that I've got her. We also have her on a harness as well. It's much more challenging for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=482.2s	482.2	 a dog to get out of a harness than a loose collar, for example. Stay, now watch this, go small.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=489.4s	489.4	 The second I open the door, she kind of walked towards. Your goal is to make sure your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=494.5s	494.5	 doesn't fail twice in a row. If they go out that door the first time, make sure you immediately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=499.8s	499.8	 set them up for success the next time. Even if it means you've got to make it super easy for them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=504.2s	504.2	 keep the pattern in your favor. Stay, now look at this. Yes, since she kind of broke on that last
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=512.9s	512.9	 one when I opened the door, I did a smaller version of it. I just touched the doorknob. Yes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=518.2s	518.2	 I like that she didn't break stay when I touched the doorknob. Does that make sense? Here we go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=523.7s	523.7	 Stay, go in slow motion. The slower you go when introducing new concepts, the better. Watch this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=531.8s	531.8	 Look at me. Very good. I love that. That was a really important moment. It may not look like much,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=538.0s	538.0	 but what just happened there? I opened the door. I then got her attention on me in the presence of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=542.8s	542.8	 an open door. That's awesome. You notice I'm using a lot of hand signals. We've got stay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=547.6s	547.6	 look at me, up here, up here. Now her attention's waning a little bit, so we're challenging her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=553.0s	553.0	 Yes, very good. Nice work. Mona Lisa, hey, up here. Yes, good. I had to get a little bit closer to her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=562.4s	562.4	 because she's a little bit more distracted. That's all very normal. I don't want to push her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=566.9s	566.9	 failure, so I'm going to close the door, let her know that I like that. We're trying to build small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=571.0s	571.0	 steps, have the discipline to do this, and you'll get much quicker, much more reliable results. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=576.6s	576.6	 We took a big step there, but I was feeling good. Very good. She's really starting to get this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=582.0s	582.0	 concept. We still have a lot of work to do in order to make her understand that she needs to stay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=586.8s	586.8	 no matter how exciting the outside is. So we're going to do another drill right now. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=591.7s	591.7	 see how she does with stay while I throw real meat out of the front door and maybe even some toys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=596.5s	596.5	 Stay, leave it alone. Very good. Leave it alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=600.7s	600.7	 Wow. Look at you. Leave it alone. Yes. Look at me. Very good. I'll take that all day long.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=608.3s	608.3	 So if you can't tell, there's a bit of a pattern here. We're gradually increasing the level of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=612.3s	612.3	 difficulty. We're next going to try toys. Stay. Ready? Look at me. Yes. Look at the tail. You hear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=623.3s	623.3	 when the moment I said yes, did you see the tail? I said yes. I'm going to try to get her to stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=629.3s	629.3	 I said yes. Did you see the tail wagging? Look at me. It's going to be a real distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=634.7s	634.7	 Up here. I don't know if you can hear the barking dog or not, but there's a dog barking there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=638.5s	638.5	 She's someone just walked by over here as well. Very good. But I still want to get those eyes on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=645.1s	645.1	 me. If her eyes aren't on me, I don't have her. Come on. Hey, look at me. Yes. Good. Just getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=651.2s	651.2	 a little extra peppy sometimes like that will help. The best part about this exercise is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=655.1s	655.1	 you're teaching your dog to think and reason on their own. Now, next steps for you guys are going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=660.3s	660.3	 to be to put her into a sit, stay every single time you open this door. I'd say for the next year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=665.0s	665.0	 of her life, make her hold a five to 10 second stay before allowing her to go through any door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=669.7s	669.7	 that leads to the outdoors. So in her mind, she needs to think, okay, I sit when the door opens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=674.3s	674.3	 I don't run out when the door opens, but this takes lots of consistency, but it's not hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=679.3s	679.3	 As you can see, she knows sit, she knows stay, she knows leave it, she knows look at me. By the way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=683.4s	683.4	 I have videos on all those topics on my playlist. I'll have that in the description. Give a big
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=688.1s	688.1	 thumbs up to Mona Lisa. She did awesome today. Become a bigger part of our community by liking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=693.1s	693.1	 me on Facebook and also checking out our Patreon campaign. Remember these videos are completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=697.7s	697.7	 free. I love doing them more than anything in the world and your contributions on Patreon really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=702.6s	702.6	 allow us to go to the next level with them. Patreon.com slash Zach George. That link will be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=707.7s	707.7	 in the description. Subscribe to my videos as well so that you see all of my future videos. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=712.4s	712.4	 you guys just did awesome today. Really good job on training and Mona Lisa, you're a rock star baby.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=717.6s	717.6	 Good job. See you guys next time. Mona Lisa was such a sharp young lady. Seriously guys, don't take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=726.8s	726.8	 chances and always prioritize stay above everything else in your obedience training. Now, if you need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=732.1s	732.1	 help with polishing up come when called and stay, check out Teddy the Chow. Are you confused about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=737.5s	737.5	 how to teach your dog to leave a treat alone when you drop it? Check out how to teach your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=741.3s	741.3	 leave something alone and I'll bet that'll answer all of your questions. Don't underestimate the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=746.4s	746.4	 power of eye contact with your dog as most people do. Teach your dog how to look at you when you ask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=751.6s	751.6	 in minutes. Hey, thanks to all of you who continue to support these videos on Patreon too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yw_l3Ci_Q0&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=559&pp=iAQB&t=756.1s	756.1	 and thanks again for subscribing. We'll see you guys next time.
