https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I think she's ready to do a video. What do you think? I think. Today I'm going to show you how to teach your dog how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=6.8s	6.8	 Speak on command or how to bark on command. Now what I love about this trick is number one, it's super entertaining
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=12.5s	12.5	 It's a major crowd pleaser
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 but more than that it encourages our dog to critically think and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=18.2s	18.2	 Anytime we can teach our dogs to think about something we are making their life better for the long run
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=23.5s	23.5	 The more they know how to communicate with us and us with them the better likes are going to have. I think today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=28.5s	28.5	 I'm going to use the clicker. Remember all that click means is good dog. I like what you did you win a prize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=34.8s	34.8	 Right there now. I have a whole video on on how to do this. It's short. It's easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=38.2s	38.2	 It'll be in the description if you need more information on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=40.6s	40.6	 One of the most important things to remember when you're teaching speak is to use a really really good reward right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=46.1s	46.1	 I'm using tiny bits of cheese that indy likes and I'm gonna let her have a piece right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=51.7s	51.7	 Just to let her get a good taste of it. Let her know. Look, I got something good if you want it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=55.9s	55.9	 You've got to earn it now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=57.9s	57.9	 Speak or barking on command is one of those tricks. You cannot make a dog do it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=63.1s	63.1	 They have to want to do this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=64.9s	64.9	 So one of the things that I do is I'll let him know I have a treat just like that and I'm gonna wait for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 To bark because often when dogs are trying to figure something out and they're looking for guidance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=75.9s	75.9	 They will bark to let us know that they don't fully understand what we want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=79.3s	79.3	 And then what do you think we're gonna do at that point?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=82.6s	82.6	 That's right. I'm gonna click and I'm gonna reward but I'm gonna sincerely let her know that I appreciate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=87.3s	87.3	 What she's doing very good. Now just watch watch your eyes over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=91.1s	91.1	 If she looks like she's gonna do it, she probably will and guys, you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=94.8s	94.8	 You might have to sit here for five minutes with your dog and wait and it seems like an eternity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=99.0s	99.0	 But in the scheme of things what is five minutes?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 You can see her she's like I'm gonna jump on you I'm gonna say no now when I say no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=111.3s	111.3	 I need to follow it up with corrective action in this case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=114.4s	114.4	 The corrective action is no cheese look in her eyes you got that breathe. Yep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=124.3s	124.3	 Right there just that subtle bit she didn't bark right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=127.5s	127.5	 But why did I click her ears went back and I'm thinking I can tell she's thinking about it now again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=132.7s	132.7	 I know her very well, but you know your dog very well at home, too. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=137.7s	137.7	 Did you hear that by chance? I don't know if the mic caught that it was very subtle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=142.1s	142.1	 Timing is everything the reason I'm not saying anything is because she doesn't know what that word means yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=146.7s	146.7	 But now I feel like she's starting to understand so I'm gonna say speak as she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=152.6s	152.6	 Speak yes, good girl. Very good. And this is all happening right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=158.0s	158.0	 Yes, good. Very good. I'm gonna keep this momentum going. Yes good ready
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=164.5s	164.5	 speak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=165.8s	165.8	 Almost yes, good. Speak. That was speak. No, you're notice though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 I'm not simply saying speak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=173.0s	173.0	 Good dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=174.7s	174.7	 That's what boring dog trainers do don't be like that to your dog be engaging be exciting with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=179.2s	179.2	 And that is speak she did a great job today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=182.5s	182.5	 By the way, if you like speak you are going to love my next video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=185.8s	185.8	 I am finally going to show you guys how I teach dogs math
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 That is to bark a certain number of times when you ask them to do you have a big finale for us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=195.0s	195.0	 Well, I could show you anything you want. I would tell you what. How about this one?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 Give me a math problem where the answer is between four and seven
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=200.7s	200.7	 What's three and four? All right, so count the number of times that mean it's bark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=209.4s	209.4	 Really that's unbelievable when you learn I wasn't sure the answer when you learn how to connect with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=215.2s	215.2	 You can teach them anything. That's what trick training is all about. It's not the tricks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=218.5s	218.5	 It's what you've learned about your dog and yourself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=220.5s	220.5	 Probably my most requested trick video in some time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=223.6s	223.6	 By the way, if you're not subscribed to my videos here on YouTube make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=227.2s	227.2	 Go check out my Facebook page as well because you're only getting half the story if you're watching my YouTube videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=233.2s	233.2	 Lots of cool content lots of great trainers over there on my Facebook page as well Facebook.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w0TASn4OhZc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=647&pp=iAQB&t=238.5s	238.5	 The Zach George and we'll see you in the next video. Thanks guys. Good job, bro
