https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 One of the most common things that people ask me as it relates to teaching a dog how to play frisbee is you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=5.9s	5.9	 My dog will chase the frisbee while it's in the air and they'll watch it and they'll get right up to it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=10.5s	10.5	 but then they just wait for it to hit the ground and don't catch it and it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=15.1s	15.1	 Astonishes me how many people are discouraged by this and just give up and say man
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 I guess my dog is just not a frisbee dog. They don't want to grab it out of the air
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=21.3s	21.3	 Well, the bottom line is it's almost the best analogy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=24.9s	24.9	 I can make is it's almost like expecting a an infant to learn how to walk before they crawl in other words
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=33.0s	33.0	 1000% of all frisbee dogs will always do that in the beginning if they're not doing it. You don't have a dog today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=40.3s	40.3	 I'm gonna show you how to teach your dog to snag a frisbee out of the air now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 I'm gonna be showing you with Indiana Jones who has just recently learned how to catch the frisbee consistently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=49.0s	49.0	 I'm gonna show you exactly how we taught her to do that. Alright, Indy you ready? Let's get started, baby
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=54.2s	54.2	 You ready? She's all hyped. She's into her frisbee right here. Look at her go. She's watching it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=59.6s	59.6	 Now I've got a dog training playlist where we talk about frisbee on some other videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=64.0s	64.0	 But I'm gonna do a quick review. You can check the description of this video for that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=67.4s	67.4	 All right. So remember the first thing we do when we're teaching our dog frisbee is take it. That's very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=73.7s	73.7	 So she's taking it. She knows how to grab it from the rim. That is perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=77.3s	77.3	 The next thing we do with our dogs. We encourage them to come around. Remember the reason we teach our dog to come around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 Like this is to give them a running start so we've got take it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=86.7s	86.7	 We've got come around take it very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=89.4s	89.4	 It's important to remember that we don't just teach our dog to take it and then throw it as far as we can remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=94.7s	94.7	 It's all about baby steps. Don't ask for too much phase it in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=97.7s	97.7	 You can't get from A to Z without hitting all those letters in between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=100.9s	100.9	 We have to get them to take it out of the air while it's in the air close up first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=105.5s	105.5	 Does that make sense? Watch this and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=108.2s	108.2	 Take it very good Indy caught it. So they've got to catch it in the air like that first. Yes. Good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=114.6s	114.6	 That's catch it. She's looking good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=117.5s	117.5	 Yeah, she did it good job Indy. Come on, baby. Remember guys the crazier you act with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=125.3s	125.3	 The better they're gonna appreciate it the better they're gonna do play with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=129.2s	129.2	 Don't teach them have a good time with it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=131.2s	131.2	 And that's how you teach your dog to catch a frisbee out of the air do this with your dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=134.9s	134.9	 Especially if they have a lot of energy, especially if they love to fetch they will love you forever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=140.1s	140.1	 It's also good to keep them in shape and keep them happy. That's what having a dog is all about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=144.8s	144.8	 It's not about the tricks. It's not about all the stuff they do. It's about having a better relationship with our animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=149.9s	149.9	 That's why we teach them things like this. Make sure you like me on Facebook Facebook.com slash V Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=155.2s	155.2	 Also, check out my YouTube channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=158.1s	158.1	 Which is this channel right here and send your friends to it as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=161.7s	161.7	 If you want to change the world of dog training we have to let people know that this information is out there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIFOZsn-bFE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=653&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 I love you guys and we'll see you in the next video. Bye
