https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone and welcome to Kikopup's dog training tip of the day for today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=5.3s	5.3	 Today we're going to be working on building your dog's confidence and trust.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=9.6s	9.6	 In this specific scenario it's Epic's confidence with weaving my legs. She does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 have luxating patellas but also I made the mistake of tripping while we were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 doing leg weaving and since then she's lost trust and confidence with weaving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 my legs and she's finding it aversive. When I ask for doing it she doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 want to do it because she is worried that she's gonna get hurt because I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=33.1s	33.1	 very big and now I am untrustable with my movement because I tripped. So the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=39.7s	39.7	 key with if your dog has started to not want to do a certain trick or behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=43.5s	43.5	 is first go to the vet and check out to see there's like nothing wrong if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=47.5s	47.5	 suspect that but the next step is changing the picture. So I'm gonna make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=52.5s	52.5	 the picture look completely different. I'm sitting down my legs are very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 stationary and reliable and she's very comfortable around my legs. See I could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=61.0s	61.0	 work first work on being comfortable about around my legs. If the dog was still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 really scared of the whatever it is like the legs you could try a different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=69.2s	69.2	 object so maybe two cones and work on that first build the cue the trust and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=74.6s	74.6	 confidence and then switch it back to the old picture if you wanted to do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=78.5s	78.5	 So with her I'm gonna use a high rate of reinforcement so I'm gonna give her a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=83.2s	83.2	 treat actually she goes in the opposite direction I'm gonna give her a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=86.8s	86.8	 here and then over here I call it hunts and Gretel so they're just doing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 behavior looking for the next treat and then do this a couple of times where the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=97.5s	97.5	 dog is just getting really confident with going between your legs like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=100.4s	100.4	 to find the treats and then you make the treats further and further apart and see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=105.0s	105.0	 if the dog might think to offer the behavior looking for the next treat so I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=109.8s	109.8	 can also make it more likely to happen by having my hand put a treat here like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=116.4s	116.4	 that and have my hand disappear under my leg so she might think to go under there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=121.1s	121.1	 and I can mark it good and then feed her in the direction that she's going so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=128.8s	128.8	 that I'm creating this nice flowing movement then once I've gotten to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=134.3s	134.3	 point where she is offering the behavior really really reliably which is not yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 I can then go back to adding a cue and I could add a completely different cue so the last cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=146.1s	146.1	 that I had was legs and legs meant recently to not go through my legs and be scared that I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=153.9s	153.9	 going to step on her so I'm going to call it weave so I can say go weave and then lure her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=162.0s	162.0	 go weave good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=165.9s	165.9	 go weave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=168.9s	168.9	 good girl and then go back to making it super easy where she's offering again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=175.5s	175.5	 because I wouldn't really add the cue here yet but that would be the next step because she's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=181.1s	181.1	 quite yet confidently going through my legs and really really finding it reinforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=190.5s	190.5	 good girl so I might get three leg weaves that she offers where she goes like through here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 and then through here three times before I then add the cue to make it really really reinforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=206.0s	206.0	 but I did also drop some crumbs so that's what why she's hesitating but usually if your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=212.4s	212.4	 really interested in in working for the treats that you have and they're tiny tiny crumbs it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 just tells you that they're not completely confident about how to earn the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=223.6s	223.6	 they rather look for teeny weeny little crumbs than do the behavior so it is information to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=229.6s	229.6	 so we're just going to be working on this the next week I hope you enjoyed this tip of the day and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 if you would like to support my work don't forget to like and leave a comment because that means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=240.8s	240.8	 more people will see the video and it's highly reinforcing for me when that happens so please
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=247.5s	247.5	 don't forget to do that and you can also subscribe so that you get these daily training tips every day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yStVPW6JSaw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=101&pp=iAQB&t=254.2s	254.2	 see you later
