https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone and good morning. I thought I would re-implement my dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=4.8s	4.8	 training tip of the day on my channel Kikopup on YouTube so that I can talk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 about interesting and really useful advice every day without having to sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=15.7s	15.7	 down and make a complex tutorial. Because what can happen is that it can take me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=20.7s	20.7	 quite a while to make these tutorials that are in-depth with all the steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=24.9s	24.9	 about what to do and what to do when things go wrong. So I thought I would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 create these useful fun tips that you can just watch really quickly and keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=33.1s	33.1	 them short and fun. So enough talking about that so we can keep it short. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=38.1s	38.1	 today I want to talk about teaching your dog to work for toys so that they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=43.9s	43.9	 increase their speed doing behaviors. So Bliss is nine months old. I would usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=50.3s	50.3	 wait till the dog is around 12 months old when the behaviors are really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=56.5s	56.5	 reliable and they really find playing with toys reinforcing. So you really want to have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=60.5s	60.5	 clean reinforcement delivery with the toys and I don't have it just yet with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=65.6s	65.6	 Bliss so that's why I'm going to show you. Sometimes when I ask him to drop it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=70.5s	70.5	 I haven't really worked on it because I have three young dogs and he's my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=74.9s	74.9	 service dog so we've been working on other behaviors more than getting him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=80.0s	80.0	 interested in working for toys so much more calm stuff using food and so now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=85.2s	85.2	 it's the perfect opportunity. Now you want your dog to have strong behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=89.3s	89.3	 that they know very reliably for food so they can do the behavior spin or twirl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=96.5s	96.5	 or maybe sit is the strongest behavior for your dog or leg weaving and then do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=101.3s	101.3	 it in different environments. Ask for multiple behaviors and if your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=105.5s	105.5	 reliably doing behaviors you can move on to using toys where your dog is reliably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=110.5s	110.5	 taking it dropping it or fetching it nicely before you then do the training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 So I just want to warm him up by getting him interested in playing with the toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=120.3s	120.3	 so I can see that the behaviors are reliable that he's gonna get it when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 say get it and drop it when I say drop it. Are you ready Blissie? Ready? Get it!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=127.7s	127.7	 Oh good boy! That made everyone drop so if he doesn't drop I'm gonna tap the frisbee
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=135.8s	135.8	 and get him interested in the other one. What's this? What's this? Good! Get it!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 Awesome! Drop! Good! Get it! Good job! Drop! Get it! Nice! Drop! Get it! Woohoo! Drop! Get it!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=153.7s	153.7	 So what I suggest for myself is to work on this exercise three times you know maybe this morning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=161.8s	161.8	 or this morning and this evening or three days in a row and really drop get that cue where when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=167.2s	167.2	 say drop the toy he's like blip and he spits it out because he wants to spit it out. Drop! Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=173.9s	173.9	 Get it! So if you were wanting to rush things if you're going to play tug with your dog and they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=180.2s	180.2	 don't drop reliably when you're tugging you can let go get it and then say drop and then they will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=187.9s	187.9	 be more reliable letting go of the toy if you're training a behavior and they're getting super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=191.7s	191.7	 excited because you don't really want to ruin your drop as you're trying to increase speed in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=197.9s	197.9	 a behavior because then when you try to use toys in the future it's going to turn into a please can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=203.1s	203.1	 you drop that are you ready he's ready are you ready free so I would like to teach him to spin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=210.1s	210.1	 a little bit faster so what I'm going to do is use the toy as a lure which we've also worked on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=215.9s	215.9	 are you ready twirl get it good job good job and because I'm not sure if he'll drop it I'll say drop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 after I let go ready and if he starts to jump for the toys I can just wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=230.4s	230.4	 and make sure he's focused again ready twirl spin twirl get it good job drop good get it drop and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=243.3s	243.3	 because drop isn't a very reliable behavior yet because I haven't worked on it um drop I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=250.5s	250.5	 to start working on drop and get it as well so those are two behaviors drop get it as well as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 spinning drop get it drop get it ready are you steady ready twirl yes and twirl and twirl and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=268.0s	268.0	 twirl and spin and spin and spin ready spin go legs go legs go legs go legs ready sit sit pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=282.7s	282.7	 both paws twirl go legs sit pretty both paws can you do both paws spin whoops can you spin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=294.1s	294.1	 good go legs and down down down cross down switch ready go get it so I'm re-engaging him when he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 slows down by moving the frisbee like this and getting him more excited now if I hadn't worked on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=311.7s	311.7	 multiple behaviors before a treat this is going to really frustrate a dog working for a toy so that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=318.1s	318.1	 why I suggest working for multiple behaviors and really building those behaviors strong
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=322.9s	322.9	 before using a toy ready one two three twirl uh spin spin one two three spin one two three spin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=330.5s	330.5	 ready go legs and catch it this is my boy halo he's three and he used to be slow and steady
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=339.3s	339.3	 when he was a little pup because I worked on uh duration without frustration with the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=345.3s	345.3	 and here he is at three and you can see I can get him really fast if I want to and he's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=351.6s	351.6	 going to get overexcited he's just fast with uh precision whoo whoo good so I can use a toy as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 lure I can turn around and I get that really nice behavior of him bringing it back and dropping it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=369.1s	369.1	 catch it whoo bring drop do you see how fast that is that's why you want to work on those behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=376.9s	376.9	 of the reinforcement delivery drop so I have quite a few get it where I let them get it like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=382.3s	382.3	 drop twirl get it drop spin get it drop go legs get it drop go around go around get it drop go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=390.8s	390.8	 circle get it good drop and he's not going to bite my hand because we worked on it whoo-hoo did you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=398.2s	398.2	 trip drop and we can use the toy to train this is a game that I used to build speed and reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=405.8s	405.8	 without frustration ready twirl get it drop spin get it drop twirl get it drop go legs get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=412.9s	412.9	 drop go round get it whoo drop go circle get it boom drop drop and then I proof the get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=422.8s	422.8	 by not saying it yet so it's like a simon says get it good drop get it drop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=431.8s	431.8	 get it drop twirl get it oh that made everyone excited because that's the game they play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=436.9s	436.9	 drop ready this is for wish whoo wish you go crazy crazy crazy crazy crazy crazy wait unwind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=445.1s	445.1	 unwind unwind unwind unwind unwind unwind wait up whoo-hoo wish and halo here are actually the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=453.6s	453.6	 world record holders for the most tricks done in 60 seconds because they're so fast are you ready
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=459.7s	459.7	 both paws left turn go go around go around watch out cloudy watch out cloudy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lABx8vmxNJU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=102&pp=iAQB&t=467.7s	467.7	 can you wave can you wave yeah well see you later guys
