https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this video is on tips for introducing dogs together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=3.8s	3.8	 I already have a video on how to introduce a new dog to your household of dogs, and I'll link that in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=11.3s	11.3	 It's important to understand that if you have a dog that can become fearful, reactive, or aggressive,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=16.9s	16.9	 it's a good idea to seek help from a professional trainer who doesn't use any forms of physical or psychological
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=24.3s	24.3	 intimidation to help you with this training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=26.3s	26.3	 You can even show them this video as an idea of what you want to do with your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=31.3s	31.3	 There are a few things to keep in mind when introducing dogs together. In my opinion,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=36.0s	36.0	 it's not only good to keep the dog safe, but for the dogs to feel safe as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=41.0s	41.0	 So they're trusting the situation that you're putting them into, and this can be achieved by breaking the steps up into small enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 approximations that the dog is feeling comfortable every step of the way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 So of course if your dog has never met other dogs or is a little bit anxious when meeting a new dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=60.4s	60.4	 there might be a little bit of stress, but you're reducing it as much as possible so that the dog can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=67.0s	67.0	 at each step of the way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=69.0s	69.0	 achieve that feeling of confidence that they feel comfortable in that situation before moving on to the next step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=76.2s	76.2	 So it really depends on the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=79.3s	79.3	 how you set the situation up. For example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 some dogs might not like another dog looming in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=86.9s	86.9	 at the distance and are much more comfortable with a dog laying down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=92.0s	92.0	 that they immediately are near and they can see that the dog is calm and relaxed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 rather than some dog in the distance that they can't see close enough that they can read that they're no threat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=104.4s	104.4	 So for one dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=105.9s	105.9	 the situation of a dog being in the distance might be where you first start, and for another you might be close up to a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=112.6s	112.6	 calm relaxed dog. So it might not be the dog you want to introduce your dog to, but it's the first step of having the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=119.4s	119.4	 around calm relaxed dogs that the dog learns to trust. So that's a great first step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=126.2s	126.2	 for getting to the point of introducing the two dogs that you do want to introduce is getting them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=132.4s	132.4	 comfortable with the game of being introduced to other dogs with really safe,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 predictable, reliable dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=140.9s	140.9	 The other thing that's really important to keep in mind is that the amount of excitement and stress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=147.2s	147.2	 that the dog is under is going to make the dog more unpredictable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=151.2s	151.2	 So the calmer the dog is, the more predictable their behavior is going to be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=157.7s	157.7	 If you add fear and excitement into a situation that can make dogs more likely to react in a way that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=165.6s	165.6	 is not going to achieve that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=169.3s	169.3	 situation that we want them to be calm and friendly together or play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 So I would say even if dogs are having a really good time when they first meet,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=179.1s	179.1	 perhaps they immediately start playing, but you see that they're very excited, I would interrupt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=186.1s	186.1	 anytime the dogs get too excited and then work on calm settles or just hanging out with each other on leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=194.1s	194.1	 just so that there isn't going to be that negative experience where they realize that they're in a situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=200.9s	200.9	 that is a little bit overwhelming for them and they might react badly. So keeping the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=207.3s	207.3	 introductions short and positive if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=210.1s	210.1	 when you get to the point where you might have the dogs play with each other. If you have two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=215.2s	215.2	 extremely social dogs that are used to immediately meeting dogs and everything goes fine,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=220.7s	220.7	 obviously with those type of dogs when you have two together, they can immediately meet and have a wonderful time together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=227.3s	227.3	 So I have dogs like that where you could just put them with another dog and they're going to get on well and they're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=233.3s	233.3	 to have a wonderful time and you won't have to interrupt them because they do everything right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=237.6s	237.6	 But if you have two dogs that are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=241.1s	241.1	 not very good with social skills, I suggest taking it extremely slow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=246.2s	246.2	 So it really depends on each dog how long it's going to take for them to actually be able to meet and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=253.2s	253.2	 for some dogs it might take a couple months of meetups
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=257.8s	257.8	 for the dogs to actually like hanging out with each other and find it a reinforcing experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=263.4s	263.4	 Where other dogs it might just take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=266.3s	266.3	 one hour. An example of this is a golden retriever puppy of 16 weeks that my friend and trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=273.6s	273.6	 Jan Szycik brought to my property in order to have the dog have some positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=278.7s	278.7	 experiences and build his her confidence around other dogs. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=283.5s	283.5	 you'll see in the footage that at first she's really nervous, but by the end of the hour
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=288.7s	288.7	 she's playing with one of my dogs. So we could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=292.9s	292.9	 basically you go in small safe steps, but if the dog is successful every step of the way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=298.0s	298.0	 you can then move on to the next step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=299.9s	299.9	 So that's why I like to break the steps up small enough so that you can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=304.1s	304.1	 you know, you'll move as fast as the dog is ready to go. It's not about moving slowly and taking months
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=310.4s	310.4	 to train each dog. So if you have one dog that is extremely comfortable and social and a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=317.5s	317.5	 helper dog, you can use that dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=320.5s	320.5	 so that the other dog can feel safe. So you'll see in the footage that I'm going to show you that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=327.0s	327.0	 I'm putting the helper dog in a situation that is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=332.0s	332.0	 inviting to the other dog. So the least inviting situation for a dog that's uncomfortable or gets excited by other dogs is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=340.4s	340.4	 face-to-face
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=342.2s	342.2	 direct eye contact and moving towards or standing still and staring depending on which the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=350.0s	350.0	 doesn't like the most. So some dogs might not like it if the dog is super still, other dogs might not like it if the dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=357.7s	357.7	 moving towards them fast or even slow. So if you had a dog that was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=363.5s	363.5	 uncomfortable with stillness you could calmly move the other dog in zigzags at a distance in a reliable pattern
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=372.0s	372.0	 to get them used to that other dog being no threat where in other cases
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=377.2s	377.2	 you might want to have that dog laying down facing the other way and they can approach and retreat and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=383.2s	383.2	 feel get reinforced for approaching and retreating. I personally like to prevent the helper dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=389.3s	389.3	 from turning and looking at the other dog. So what I do is make sure that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=395.3s	395.3	 have my hand there ready to block the dog's vision
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=398.0s	398.0	 so if they turn around the other dog won't see their face or I'm just going to hold their collar or just feed a treat if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=404.0s	404.0	 I trust that the dog will never look around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=406.0s	406.0	 So my dog Splash was really good if I just told her to not look around and fed her she wasn't going to turn her head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=412.5s	412.5	 and look around but if you're working with like say for example a little puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=417.0s	417.0	 they're most likely you know unpredictable so you might just block them or hold them in a way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=422.6s	422.6	 if they feel comfortable that the other dog can approach and retreat. So I'll have the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=427.7s	427.7	 the one that's uncomfortable gets to smell the butt of the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=430.5s	430.5	 the helper dog the one that's confident and comfortable with the situation of being a sitting duck.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=437.2s	437.2	 Now obviously if your dog is uncomfortable in this situation don't do that you can work on other things like parallel walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=444.9s	444.9	 arcing around each other going on walks together for a couple of meetups
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=449.4s	449.4	 before you do something like this and then have one dog smell the other dog and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=456.8s	456.8	 have one dog sniff the other dog's butt for a millisecond and then move away and then you know take turns
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=463.2s	463.2	 with the things that they find invasive and highly reinforce it and really get those steps slow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=471.0s	471.0	 But if you have helper dogs that are comfortable with these invasive things that other dogs do and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=477.4s	477.4	 they're happy go lucky about it you can utilize them to speed up the process of making that other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=483.2s	483.2	 feel confident because they're getting to sniff the helper dog without the social pressure of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=489.1s	489.1	 having that other dog's face looming over them. So once they're comfortable finding out that the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=494.4s	494.4	 other dog isn't going to suddenly jump on them if they approach and they got reinforced for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=499.5s	499.5	 gathering information then you can start to slowly introduce the dogs. So one thing you can do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=507.8s	507.8	 is after they've gotten a couple of sniffs then they can start receiving treats for settling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=512.6s	512.6	 together or just standing calmly on a leash following each other where the helper dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=519.0s	519.0	 in front and the the one that's not so doesn't feel so comfortable follows the helper dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=525.1s	525.1	 and then walking at each other's sides and then when the dog is comfortable with sniffing the butt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=531.1s	531.1	 you can have the helper dog sitting waiting for a treat if the dog doesn't guard food and then the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=536.8s	536.8	 helper the the dog that's not as comfortable can sniff the dog's butt and you can see if they want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=543.0s	543.0	 to come up and sniff the face of the other dog. So you're going to be feeding the other dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=549.4s	549.4	 ignoring this dog coming and sniffing their face if you have a reliable helper dog that's not going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=555.5s	555.5	 to guard food. Here's footage of my friend and trainer Joanna Chang with her Aussie gummy bear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=562.0s	562.0	 meeting my puppy Cloud for the first time. She marked and reinforced steps towards the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=567.3s	567.3	 and then allowed gummy bear to sniff for a second before then cueing let's go and feeding her away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=573.5s	573.5	 from the puppy. If at any point the dog starts pulling on leash or stops eating the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=578.8s	578.8	 you can create distance and wait for the dog to get calmer before approaching the other dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=584.4s	584.4	 You could say uh go say hello or whatever.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=603.8s	603.8	 Using a barrier like this fence is a great idea to practice taking turns taking treats so that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=609.7s	609.7	 you don't have to block one of the dogs for getting in the other dog's face while taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=614.2s	614.2	 treats and it's also great because gummy bear likes to play with other dogs and we wouldn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=619.1s	619.1	 want her to learn to put her foot on the puppy. A first step to settling or taking turns taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=626.2s	626.2	 treats next to each other is having the dog's face in different directions and reinforcing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=631.9s	631.9	 dog for settling or standing calmly on the loose leash. Gummy bear is learning that meeting a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=637.6s	637.6	 isn't just about playing but sometimes it's a calm greeting. If you do plan to have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=643.8s	643.8	 dogs loose together you can practice recalls with one dog loose and the other dog behind the barrier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=653.8s	653.8	 Awesome! I don't suggest having large active dogs loose with little dogs because accidents
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=659.6s	659.6	 do happen say for example the dog is running after a toy and they step on the little dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=665.3s	665.3	 One thing you can do is use a family member to interact with the dog you want your dog to meet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=671.1s	671.1	 and then reinforce your dog for watching that interaction calmly. You can also use another dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=677.1s	677.1	 the dog is friends with or a dog that the dog lives with if that dog is really social and easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=682.7s	682.7	 going and have that dog interact with the dog you want your dog to meet first while he or she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=688.5s	688.5	 watches. I like to work on having the dog look at the other dog from different angles and from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=694.6s	694.6	 different distances until the dog feels calm and confident around that other dog. The goal is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=702.2s	702.2	 get to the point where both dogs can just be calm and relax and aren't fixated on each other so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=708.2s	708.2	 they're either sniffing around enjoying the environment as gummy bear is doing here or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=713.0s	713.0	 interested in working for treats. Check out the written description below for the protocol on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=718.2s	718.2	 how to do these training setups. Here I'm backing into the scenario where the dog can't see the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=733.1s	733.1	 puppy and then I calmly put the puppy down and start feeding the puppy treats. This is my happy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=738.6s	738.6	 go lucky little pup named Cloud and you can see that that approach and putting the puppy down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=745.2s	745.2	 like that facing the other way has really encouraged Leah to want to go and sniff the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=750.0s	750.0	 puppy for the first time. Then she decides to go back to Jan for a break. My goal is to try and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=756.4s	756.4	 not let my little pup stare at Leah while she's looking so I'm using a treat and I'm luring her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=761.6s	761.6	 in the opposite direction. Now Jan is going to do a drive-by with Leah and see if she wants to come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=768.2s	768.2	 and sniff the puppy but she doesn't and she goes on the outside of Jan using Jan as a blocker between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=774.7s	774.7	 her and the other dog. After letting her smell my puppy Cloud from behind I then did let her go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=784.8s	784.8	 face to face with my puppy but if you saw something happen where the other dog got really scared or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=790.5s	790.5	 excited you could immediately interrupt the behavior. I'm offering both of the dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=796.6s	796.6	 because neither of the dog's resource guards food and you can see my little pup made some eye contact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=802.5s	802.5	 and wagged her tail and Leah needed to take a break. As you can see my puppy is stationary on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=808.6s	808.6	 leash and Leah is loose or could have been on a long line so she can move away if necessary. Also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=816.0s	816.0	 because she sees Jan as the safety if Jan is standing right next to my puppy then Leah doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=823.0s	823.0	 have a place to escape to so by her standing further away it helps Leah to go back to safety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=829.0s	829.0	 away from the puppy and also it makes it very obvious when she ventures away to interact on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=835.1s	835.1	 her own. Here I'm holding my little Chihuahua Kiko so that she's very still so Leah can approach but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=841.1s	841.1	 she still has her tail tucked so as I said earlier we try to reduce the dog stress as much as possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=848.8s	848.8	 during the training but of course if it's a new situation where the dog is meeting another dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=854.0s	854.0	 for the very first time in their life there will be a little bit of stress but the goal is to reduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=859.4s	859.4	 it as much as possible and move as fast as possible to the dog feeling comfortable in that situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=866.0s	866.0	 So here minutes later she's sharing treats with Kiko the Chihuahua and we have both dogs off leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=874.0s	874.0	 because Kiko is 16 and she moves super slow and reliably and Leah isn't going to harm Kiko. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=882.2s	882.2	 might need to use a barrier or a leash with your own puppy or get help from a trainer so you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=888.1s	888.1	 set up these scenarios. After introducing Leah to the two little dogs we then introduced her to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=896.7s	896.7	 happy-go-lucky six-month-old border collie Bliss first by having him settle calmly at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=904.2s	904.2	 with a barrier and walk calmly back and forth and because Leah was doing so well we had him acting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=911.0s	911.0	 friendly towards Jan and then had Leah meet him through the fence while he was waggling his tail.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=920.1s	920.1	 They also practiced taking turns taking treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=925.2s	925.2	 Then we played the game where I had my puppy facing away so Leah could approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=930.2s	930.2	 and then we practiced some settling together. Because both puppies were a good match and Leah
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=937.2s	937.2	 kept initiating play with Bliss I had him lay down and stepped on his leash so that he didn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=943.1s	943.1	 hover over her so her first experiences with playing with a new dog besides her litter mates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=949.3s	949.3	 was a positive one. So here he goes to try and paw her and I help to make sure he doesn't just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=956.0s	956.0	 lean all his weight on her. Now if for any reason my dog was stressed by having being on leash or me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=963.0s	963.0	 using my hand to pull him off of the other dog I would stop and teach the dog to be comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=969.4s	969.4	 with handling and restraint first before using this so they could have continued to meet through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=975.6s	975.6	 a fence if my dog was uncomfortable with this or have them play in a smaller area like a small room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=983.5s	983.5	 because when dogs are playing in a large field like this and they're at a distance and something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=988.6s	988.6	 goes wrong it's hard to interrupt the behavior if both dogs are excited. In this scenario the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=994.7s	994.7	 more excitable young dog is stationary watching the calm dog walk back and forth at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1000.8s	1000.8	 before then adding movement so now both dogs are walking either parallel or back and forth in front
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1008.1s	1008.1	 of each other. Then when we increased the proximity to each other we went back to the step of having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1013.8s	1013.8	 the excitable dog stationary while the calm dog walks back and forth. You can practice trailing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1020.2s	1020.2	 the calm friendly dog here I'm marking and reinforcing gummy bear for following on a loose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1025.2s	1025.2	 leash. Now gummy bear is being followed by splash and you can see that she's calm and relaxed. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1031.8s	1031.8	 is a great test to see if the dog is comfortable with the other because if you have the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1036.9s	1036.9	 behind yours and your dog is hyper vigilant it means that your dog is still uncomfortable and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1042.3s	1042.3	 you need to work on easier exercises like your dog following that other dog. Because both dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1048.2s	1048.2	 were calm and comfortable we worked in closer proximity where we had a human between the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1054.1s	1054.1	 as they walked and then when the dogs were very successful we started walking them next to each
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1059.1s	1059.1	 other on a walk. If you look closely though splash starts to not want to walk that close to gummy bear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1066.6s	1066.6	 and she switches sides so if this happens mark and reinforce the dogs for creating space from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1073.4s	1073.4	 each other and go back a step. This is footage of the first time that my puppy Bliss hung out with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1078.6s	1078.6	 gummy bear. First we worked on settle at a distance then nearby and then we worked on calm loose leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1084.8s	1084.8	 walking together. The more dogs you play these games with the more your dog is going to trust
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1091.7s	1091.7	 when other dogs are around you're going to keep them safe and that it can be a calm positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1097.3s	1097.3	 experience rather than something to be fearful of or over excited by. Thank you so much for watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1103.4s	1103.4	 if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erYxSWe9kbQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=117&pp=iAQB&t=1108.4s	1108.4	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button. See you later!
