https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone in this video I'm going to show you how to add a verbal cue to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=5.0s	5.0	 behavior and give you some tips for adding a verbal cue where you say a word
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=10.3s	10.3	 that means to do the behavior instead of using a hand signal to do the behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=15.6s	15.6	 So actually I haven't really worked on offering a down from a stand. Oh good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=23.0s	23.0	 job. Of course he's going to prove me wrong but he is mainly I have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=27.3s	27.3	 practiced having him down from a sit offering it on just a verbal cue. While
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=33.4s	33.4	 I'm sitting down on the ground I have actually been asking him to down from a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=39.2s	39.2	 stand but while I'm standing up and he's just standing I haven't got him to down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=44.3s	44.3	 from a stand so I'm going to use that as an example and also spinning clockwise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=52.7s	52.7	 which I call spin. He's already started to offer spinning in the opposite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=57.8s	57.8	 direction but I haven't yet properly worked on getting him to spin clockwise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 You ready? Okay so we'll begin with down so what I'm just going to do is warm him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=71.4s	71.4	 up by luring him into the position. Good. Marking and reinforcing multiple times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=78.4s	78.4	 because it's a duration behavior and then saying free and marking him for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=83.9s	83.9	 getting up and I'm also going to mark him and feed him for staying standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=89.2s	89.2	 because the problem was he kept sitting so he always learned down from sit but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=94.6s	94.6	 stand he didn't understand because he was always sitting when I asked for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=97.9s	97.9	 down. Okay so now I'm going to say down and if he doesn't think to lie down I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=103.8s	103.8	 going to lure him into the position and I'm not going to worry about how sloppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 it looks right now. Free. I can work on him moving nicely and smoothly into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=115.2s	115.2	 position by doing training games where I'm just luring him like this and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=119.6s	119.6	 getting that nice smooth position changes but when I first start teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=124.8s	124.8	 offering down from a stand where I'm not helping him out I'm going to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=130.5s	130.5	 anything, any thinking to go down so if he wants to flop his legs around or if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 he has to step around that's fine. I'm going to mark his offering even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=140.8s	140.8	 it doesn't look precise and then I can always go back and lure him to get that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=145.8s	145.8	 nice precision if that's something that you're interested in. I am you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=151.1s	151.1	 interested in it for tricks but also see how he's flipped his hips like that if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=155.4s	155.4	 he always if your dog always lays down in an asymmetrical kind of way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=159.9s	159.9	 especially if they're a puppy and you're marking and reinforcing it, free. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=164.7s	164.7	 might be inadvertently building muscles in equally on their sides so if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=170.0s	170.0	 going to ask your dog to sit, free, sit with offering then what you can do is if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=176.4s	176.4	 they're sitting crooked as you go to feed them the treat you can straighten
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=181.0s	181.0	 them up a bit so if they were rolled back sitting on their butt bone you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=186.9s	186.9	 them forwards so they're actively sitting rather than you know just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=191.6s	191.6	 letting their legs flop so I like to feed like that to get that nice sit free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=197.0s	197.0	 and then also continue to lure the dog into the sitting position and you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=202.8s	202.8	 use like a slightly uneven surface to like a fitness pad or doing these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=210.1s	210.1	 exercises on the couch to get your dog looking nice and symmetrical and using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=215.5s	215.5	 all their muscles properly rather than what's going to happen when you ask them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=220.6s	220.6	 to do something when they're first learning to offer so sorry for the long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=224.2s	224.2	 tip so now I'm going to ask him to down and if he doesn't lure him free and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=233.0s	233.0	 because I've been talking a lot he forgot whoops so I'm going to go back to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=239.8s	239.8	 luring down so basically I'm going to say the cue down and then if he doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=244.4s	244.4	 I'm going to wait a little bit and then lure him so the word down predicts the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=250.0s	250.0	 visual signal so what you're doing free is teaching the dog that the word that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=254.7s	254.7	 you say predicts the cue and then after repetition it becomes the cue down good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=263.4s	263.4	 so there he sat and then laid down which is fine to click him offering it but I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=270.5s	270.5	 can always go back free and cue down and then lure him with the movement that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=276.6s	276.6	 want for going from stand to down free good down he's like how about sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=286.6s	286.6	 another thing I can do is reset him and then say down and then lure him into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=292.5s	292.5	 down position another technique you can use if your dog isn't offering yet free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=297.4s	297.4	 is changing your cue very slightly to be less and less obvious to make it easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=304.6s	304.6	 for the dog to offer later because if you're luring your dog like this the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=309.3s	309.3	 treat is right near their nose the whole time so that's part of the cue free so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=314.0s	314.0	 if you try to just stand up like this and see if your dog might think to lay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=318.7s	318.7	 down they might not so what you can do instead to make it easier for the dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=325.4s	325.4	 understand is make it so that the dog can operate even though the treat is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=331.1s	331.1	 further away from them so you can also use no treat and teach them to lay down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=336.4s	336.4	 with with no treat free so he's seen there's no treat we were working on paw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=342.3s	342.3	 stuff earlier and he's laying down even though there's no treat and he's getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=346.9s	346.9	 marked and reinforced so he's starting to understand that concept free and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=351.5s	351.5	 I can start to hold the treat further and further away so I've got him laying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=356.6s	356.6	 down without having to put my hand here I can put my hand here free this is how I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=361.3s	361.3	 originally trained him is first I lured down like that good marked and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=369.4s	369.4	 reinforced multiple times free always remember to release him and then held my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=374.3s	374.3	 hand here and just kept cueing the same movement from higher up free and now I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=382.0s	382.0	 gonna hold my hand even higher there you go here on my leg and just keep doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=389.7s	389.7	 that little gesture good job and then mark and reinforce when he went down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=393.7s	393.7	 free so that would be the first step getting your dog to offer with a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=398.0s	398.0	 bit more distance from the food because sometimes if the food is way up here it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=403.1s	403.1	 a completely different picture and they're never going to think to lay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=405.9s	405.9	 down and they might get frustrated give up bark at you whine or just do a hundred
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=413.0s	413.0	 other behaviors and that can be very frustrating for the trainer as well so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=418.9s	418.9	 it's basically breaking the steps up smaller so here my hand is here and he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=424.0s	424.0	 going into the down position free I'm gonna do it again good boy and now I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=433.0s	433.0	 gonna say my cue free awesome ready so I'm gonna say down and if he doesn't I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=441.4s	441.4	 can do this little hand gesture on the side of my body free good job down oh I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=449.3s	449.3	 did the hand gesture at the same time out of habit free I like to give my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=455.4s	455.4	 dogs little signals so unless you're practicing for obedience the more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=459.8s	459.8	 information you give to your dog the better so if you're if you just have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=463.9s	463.9	 pet dog you have guests over instead of standing here saying down you could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=468.8s	468.8	 just say down and give the hand signal as well to really be as to make the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=475.9s	475.9	 communication as clear as possible free for your dog so again unless you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=482.9s	482.9	 doing obedience where you're not allowed to use a verbal cue and a visual cue at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=487.2s	487.2	 the same time there's no harm in doing it unless you want to impress people as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=492.3s	492.3	 a dog trainer okay now we're gonna learn to spin clockwise if you're going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=500.1s	500.1	 teaching your dog to offer different behaviors on only a verbal cue in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=505.2s	505.2	 same training session it can be a little bit confusing if you stay in the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=508.7s	508.7	 area because what you've been doing is been standing still and that cues the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=514.0s	514.0	 do the behavior that they were offering before so because we've been working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=518.0s	518.0	 the down here if I stand still he might think to that it's to lay down because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=524.0s	524.0	 he hasn't learned the new verbal cue yet where it's like a green light and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=528.6s	528.6	 here's the word and it makes him do the behavior where it's created a stimulus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=535.0s	535.0	 response association for the dog so what I suggest is if you're going to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=541.6s	541.6	 multiple tricks or behaviors where they're offering after just a verbal cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=546.6s	546.6	 do them in different locations of your house so here I might work on the down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=551.2s	551.2	 he already knows what I'm gonna ask for next and here I want to teach him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=556.9s	556.9	 actually to spin in the opposite direction we worked on spinning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=562.3s	562.3	 anti-clockwise with just offering but we haven't worked on the other direction so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=568.5s	568.5	 I am gonna do it here but you can see he's already offering a down so it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=573.7s	573.7	 would be smarter for my training to do it somewhere else so here we go I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=578.2s	578.2	 gonna refresh him with the behavior so I'm gonna cue him spin and show him the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=584.3s	584.3	 hand signal and I'm luring him to so I'm luring him in a big circle like that so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=590.5s	590.5	 if you were going to first work on the dog following less and less of an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=596.1s	596.1	 obvious gesture you're just gonna make the circle smaller have no treats in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=601.1s	601.1	 your hand do a nice big gesture he said where the tree go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=606.6s	606.6	 ready there we go he was a little confused I've not actually done that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=613.2s	613.2	 before with him I usually just make the tree go further and further away there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=619.9s	619.9	 we go good job make the treat a little bit higher up and the circle smaller so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=628.1s	628.1	 I'm just going to be able to do a little finger flick before he can turn as you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=633.1s	633.1	 can see if I do a little finger flick now he doesn't know what that means so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=638.3s	638.3	 this means nothing to him I have to do a bigger gesture and I'm leaning my body
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=643.5s	643.5	 forward as I'm doing it to get him to spin like that so what I'm doing is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=648.6s	648.6	 slowly in approximations making my gesture smaller for the for the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=654.8s	654.8	 behavior now you don't have to make it harder and harder so if he actually did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=658.3s	658.3	 respond to a little finger flick like that he's like are you throwing a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=663.3s	663.3	 what's going on here if he did respond like to a little teeny finger flick then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=669.1s	669.1	 the next trial I can do a really easy one so that what happens is he doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=676.1s	676.1	 then try something else and get frustrated or just think it's really hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=680.5s	680.5	 because he's just trying to figure out what you want so you're giving him a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=684.9s	684.9	 clue again after he offers now I'm gonna say spin and then lure him good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=695.1s	695.1	 ready spin good and if they do half the behavior you can finish it off by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=702.3s	702.3	 luring them so even if he turns his head just a little bit to the right spin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=708.9s	708.9	 he's like I really want to go the other direction see spin yes another thing I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=717.5s	717.5	 can do is because I taught spin in front of me I mean twirl the other direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=723.3s	723.3	 in front of me like this I could teach spin initially on my right side so that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=731.2s	731.2	 it looks different so he's not think more likely to think about doing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=736.7s	736.7	 other behavior which is twirl ready spin good now I'm gonna just be quiet and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=745.3s	745.3	 work on the cue spin where I'm not blabbing in between ready spin spin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=759.4s	759.4	 spin yes good job spin good boy there we go I'm making my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=771.6s	771.6	 gestures less and less spin see if he might think yeah there we go good boy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=780.7s	780.7	 ready spin he really wants to go the other way spin good boy and we'll stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=791.7s	791.7	 there because I'm very pleased with what I've got you want to do high five good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=796.9s	796.9	 job and you can end on something fun if you want here's footage from much later
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=805.2s	805.2	 in the day when I did a 40-second training session with him and you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=809.0s	809.0	 see he really catches on to the verbal cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=839.1s	839.1	 I hope you found that information helpful for your training don't forget
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=844.4s	844.4	 to like comment and subscribe to my channel if you want to support my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=848.8s	848.8	 and you can also become a supporting member of channel KikoPup by clicking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBFhOgBAyek&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=123&pp=iAQB&t=853.5s	853.5	 the join button see you later guys
