https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody, this video is on beginning separation training with your puppy. My little puppy is nine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=6.4s	6.4	 weeks old and I've had him about a week prior to working on this specific exercise of seeing me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=12.6s	12.6	 moving away from a barrier. I've been working on teaching him to be okay in the crate at night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=19.4s	19.4	 and when he's taking naps and I also worked on teaching him to settle and I'll link a video in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 the description below of that behavior which he's doing down there and the other behavior that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=30.6s	30.6	 taught prior to this exercise free, get it, is just luring him into the down position. So you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=38.5s	38.5	 either do that by putting the treat down on the ground like that and seeing if the dog thinks to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=43.5s	43.5	 lay down or when the dog is standing you move the treat at a diagonal into the dog's face like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 Good and then you mark and reinforce slowly between the paws like that. So I've got this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 pen area set up for him and there's a dog bed which I've reinforced him for laying on already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=64.1s	64.1	 and so I'm going to walk in here and I could either wait and see if he thinks to lay down on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=70.9s	70.9	 the bed which is something that we've worked on and he's just sitting so oh good so he thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=77.2s	77.2	 to lay down I can say good mark and reinforce. If he didn't think to lay down I could hold the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=84.3s	84.3	 treat there and see if he thinks to lay down with the treat down there or I could lure him into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=89.6s	89.6	 down position like that. So now that he's laying down in there I can step out of his pen and stand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=96.6s	96.6	 over here and reinforce him. If he thought to come out what I can do, if he thought to come out and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=105.6s	105.6	 he said hey wait a second where are those treats at and he comes to try and get a treat I can simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=111.2s	111.2	 walk back in here and then sit with him until he thinks to lay down again and then when he's laid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 down I'm going to take a step away good and then reinforce him for that so that he's learning the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=124.4s	124.4	 reason he's getting the treats is because I'm moving away from him while he's staying there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=131.0s	131.0	 Good and I'm doing it in a very calm manner and not using a clicker I'm just using a marker word
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=137.8s	137.8	 to help keep him calm because I like to use the staccato noise of a clicker for fun exciting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=144.2s	144.2	 behaviors with my own dogs. Some people do really well with using a clicker for calm behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=149.9s	149.9	 but I like to use a calm marker like good or yep and then drop the treat like that so I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=157.7s	157.7	 try coming out again good and I'm going to drop the treat good and then when the dog is doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=166.9s	166.9	 really well with that you can try walking back and forth in front of the pen good or the gate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=178.6s	178.6	 If you have other dogs you can practice walking over to them to give them a treat that's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=183.4s	183.4	 hard for him because he thinks he should go over and eat their treat. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=193.3s	193.3	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=198.6s	198.6	 Good. I'm also going to practice walking further away. Good. He almost got up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=207.2s	207.2	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=216.6s	216.6	 Awesome. So you can practice walking further away and you can add duration. So at first you don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=222.6s	222.6	 want to add duration while you're further away you want to add duration while you're standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=227.0s	227.0	 right next to the pen like this so I could count to 20 while he's just laying there relaxing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=234.3s	234.3	 I'm not going to count to 20 now because it will be super boring but then I can drop a treat like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=238.6s	238.6	 that and then when I add your distance of moving away I'm going to come immediately back so it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=244.6s	244.6	 easier when I move away. The other game that you can play is when the dog comes out you can just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=252.2s	252.2	 stand at the entrance. Good. And reinforce the dog for choosing to go back in. So the lesson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=260.2s	260.2	 learned there is if he were to think to come out that you're showing him how to get back in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=266.9s	266.9	 by first by standing near the entrance of the pen and he's choosing to go back in there. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=274.2s	274.2	 And then you can do it from further away. So when they're further away you might want to go back to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=281.0s	281.0	 just cheating with training pop-ups so not everybody can pick their puppy up but I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=286.8s	286.8	 pick him up show him there's a bunch of treats on his bed and then move further away with him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=293.3s	293.3	 and then just let him go towards the pen from further away like that and he's like oh boy good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=300.1s	300.1	 job. Good boy. Free. Free. And when you want him to come out you can say free.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=311.7s	311.7	 Pop-ups free. Good job. Now that he's had treats sprinkled in there I can use the cue go in the pen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=320.3s	320.3	 and then reinforce him for going into the pen to look for the treats and he actually had forgotten
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=326.4s	326.4	 one he didn't see it so there was one still in there. Good job. Good. I have a tutorial on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=335.2s	335.2	 teaching go to the bed and go in the crate and I'll link those below if you need more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=340.6s	340.6	 instructions about this concept of teaching the dog to go in and offer going in on their own.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=347.6s	347.6	 Now that he's a pro at settling and I have treats that aren't making him super excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=352.7s	352.7	 I can even toss them between his paws. If you're really terrible at throwing and they're going all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=359.3s	359.3	 over the place then don't do that. Walk over and drop the treat but you can get your dog used to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=365.3s	365.3	 tossing treats if that makes it easier for you in your lifestyle. I have a bad back at the moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=371.9s	371.9	 so bending over really hurts so I like to toss treats for my dogs at the moment like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=378.6s	378.6	 I've opened the door closed it. Good. Throw a treat. Good. So the door doesn't necessarily mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=386.5s	386.5	 that I am leaving. That's why it's a great idea to start with the door open as you walk away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=393.1s	393.1	 because what happens usually when people are training dogs is that they close the door the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=398.3s	398.3	 dog's standing and they walk away then they don't know if the dog is feeling like they want to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=404.1s	404.1	 out so by having the dog in the down position with the door open when the dog stands up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=410.6s	410.6	 when the dog leaves the pen or the gated area it's very obvious that they don't want to be in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=416.8s	416.8	 there anymore so this game is building their choice to be in there when certain things happen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=423.8s	423.8	 So I'm going to have a cue go in your crates or go in your pen or go in your bed if there's no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=431.1s	431.1	 pen and it's just a bed or the couch. Good. And I'm going to reinforce the dog for settling there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=439.1s	439.1	 while distractions happen or while there is duration of me doing other stuff.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=446.8s	446.8	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=455.2s	455.2	 Good. Tug. Good. So now I'm going to add the distraction of a dog doing stuff.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=465.2s	465.2	 Good. And first a very calm movement of just sitting there. Good. Maybe he's going to do some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=473.8s	473.8	 paw exercises. Good. Good. So at first I'm marking the moment that the other dog moves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=481.2s	481.2	 and does a behavior. Wave. Bye. Good. And then I can start to delay when I give the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=489.4s	489.4	 I suggest, oops I dropped the treat on the other side of the bed, I suggest that if your dog already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=497.4s	497.4	 knows behaviors that you use behaviors they already know and you don't use a marker at first because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=502.9s	502.9	 that can be a little bit confusing. So you're just marking the dog in the bed. So you can say wave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=508.6s	508.6	 both paws. Good. Down. Switch. Cross. And I'm just saying his cues and not saying a marker after
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=521.5s	521.5	 every one because I'm teaching the puppy that he's going to do multiple behaviors before the treat is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=527.0s	527.0	 coming. Good. At first. Then when you're further away from the dog you can start marking multiple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=535.8s	535.8	 times before the puppy behind the pen gets a treat. But at first I wouldn't start with that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=541.4s	541.4	 just in case it's confusing. Are you ready? Twirl. Spin. Good. Tug go legs. Tug go legs. Another thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=549.9s	549.9	 you can do is just feed so you're not using any marker word at first when you're introducing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=556.6s	556.6	 concept of training another dog in front of your dog. So all of these behaviors tug nose actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=563.0s	563.0	 on a visual cue but I could work on just saying the cues and not marking. Legs. Legs. And I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=570.4s	570.4	 going to feed him a treat and feed this guy a treat. And for some dogs like this little guy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=577.4s	577.4	 markers excite him a lot so not using a verbal marker really helps him. Another game you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=584.2s	584.2	 play is having your dog settle on a bed and then just go around the corner and come back. So you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=589.9s	589.9	 just going out of sight and coming back. You can either add a cue to it which I call see you later
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=596.3s	596.3	 for when I leave my dogs. Say for example I'm closing a door and going behind the door and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=601.2s	601.2	 coming back. Or you can simply just disappear because they're in their pen and you're moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=605.7s	605.7	 throughout the house and you're going to disappear into a room. So here he is in his bed. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=611.4s	611.4	 to go behind this wall. Good. And then come back. And if he were standing up I could just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=620.0s	620.0	 sit here and wait till he thinks to lay down again or I can play this game with the door open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=626.1s	626.1	 so that if I walk around the corner and he comes and finds me I can just walk back with him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=633.4s	633.4	 and then wait till he lays back down there and then just walk work on me just walking here and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=638.9s	638.9	 then coming back. So I'm going to wait behind the wall for a bit and see if if he gets up like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=645.5s	645.5	 I can just demo what to do. Now the point is to not have them get up so if they're getting up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=652.1s	652.1	 more than three times within a couple minutes that tells you that you're you're doing too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=657.2s	657.2	 you're making it too hard for the dog. You want them to really enjoy settling on the bed while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=663.3s	663.3	 you disappear and come back. Good. And what is this training doing? It's reinforcing the dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=671.1s	671.1	 wanting to lay on his bed when you disappear into different rooms rather than you disappearing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=677.8s	677.8	 is the cue to follow you and figure out where you went and jump up and go and sit with you in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=683.9s	683.9	 bathroom or wherever you're going. Good. Usually it's much harder for some dogs to see their owner
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=694.5s	694.5	 disappear in their house while they're in a pen than for the owner to completely leave. So if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=700.0s	700.0	 can teach your puppy and dog to be a behind a barrier while you're doing stuff at home without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=705.0s	705.0	 freaking out that's really going to help him when you do have to leave the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=709.4s	709.4	 and teach them to be comfortable home alone. Hi Boo Boo. You want to come through here? Wish wants to come through because there's a creepy fly that's buzzing around the living room.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=722.6s	722.6	 Okay well I think we'll stop there before my puppy swells up like a balloon but I've been using his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=730.3s	730.3	 his kibbles. He's had breakfast and this is a midday meal so he's had his midday meal of his kibbles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=739.3s	739.3	 if you use treats that are too exciting you can imagine that the puppy might want to follow you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=745.0s	745.0	 around the corner because the yummy treats disappeared. So all in all this is a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=750.7s	750.7	 impulse control exercise as well because you're teaching him to control his impulses when something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=756.0s	756.0	 he wants disappears. Okay well thank you so much for watching. If you'd like to support my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=763.4s	763.4	 don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhntUDebmaQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=130&pp=iAQB&t=768.6s	768.6	 member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button. See you later!
