https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone, I've had my puppy about a week. He still doesn't have a name, but in this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=5.7s	5.7	 I thought I would show you guys a training session in real time because often people ask me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=11.9s	11.9	 should you train one behavior at a time and then when it's perfect move on to the next behavior and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=17.6s	17.6	 that is something that people used to do a long time ago and now it's more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=22.2s	22.2	 commonly accepted that you train multiple behaviors at the same time and the reason
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=27.6s	27.6	 behind that is that if you work on one behavior and then the next behavior in the next behavior then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=33.5s	33.5	 you basically are not maintaining the original behavior that you worked on and sometimes those can get lost or the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=40.9s	40.9	 puppy or dog learns the concept to only offer the behavior you're working on so it's a much better idea to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=48.3s	48.3	 multiple behaviors so the dog understands the concept of doing different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=52.8s	52.8	 behaviors for different cues. Also, you'll need to work on behavior modification and things like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 So right now we're going to start off the training session with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 teaching him to be comfortable with being brushed and I have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=68.4s	68.4	 tutorial on how to teach your dog to be comfortable with handling and grooming.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=74.2s	74.2	 So because it's the beginning of the session I'm going to start out by just brushing and feeding him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 at the same time and I'm just seeing that he doesn't look around and go for the brush.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=88.3s	88.3	 Now as you can imagine if you did things one at a time he might forget what brushing was like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 if you did it right at the beginning and then you didn't do it for a couple of weeks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=97.9s	97.9	 He might have completely forgot that experience. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=103.2s	103.2	 Oh there was a knot there sorry about that. Good! That was very awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=109.2s	109.2	 Okay so we did a little bit of brushing to get him used to that and the next thing I want to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=115.2s	115.2	 is teaching him to go to his bed. Now this bed you can go inside because it's a cozy cave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=122.3s	122.3	 but we're just going to work on him going to sit on top of the bed. So first and he's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=130.1s	130.1	 interested in these treats so I'm just going to put a treat on there. Oh my goodness! I have a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=135.8s	135.8	 bit of deli meat mixed in with his kibble so when he got that piece of deli meat he got super excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=142.6s	142.6	 So sometimes if they're a little too excited by the they're really reinforcing food the food that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=148.4s	148.4	 a novelty to them you might not use it in the training session you might just use it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=153.9s	153.9	 teaching your puppy to be calm around it rather than to train a behavior because you can see he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=159.0s	159.0	 like hello give me more of that. So I'm luring him to the bed marking and reinforcing and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=165.6s	165.6	 I'm also holding my hand down like this to see if he might lay down. Now you can separately work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 free on the on the behavior of laying down by luring the dog at an angle like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=179.8s	179.8	 Good job and then marking and reinforcing the puppy for staying down. I find it extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 important if you have an eight week old puppy they're super floppy and once they've laid down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=191.3s	191.3	 they're down. Most eight week old puppies you might have one that's the little dogs they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=198.5s	198.5	 mature faster so they might not be the same but once they're down just keep reinforcing them for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=205.3s	205.3	 staying down and then that's really going to help you with maintained behaviors like sit or down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=210.2s	210.2	 state and then I like to add a release cue immediately when training these behaviors.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=215.8s	215.8	 Free! So I say the release cue and then I tell him to get the treat in my hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 Ready? So the other way of getting it down is just holding a treat on the ground like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=227.3s	227.3	 and a lot of puppies will lay down but you might at first just mark a little shoulder
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=234.3s	234.3	 a shoulder bend if your puppy's not laying down or you can lure your puppy through your legs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=241.8s	241.8	 and that usually will get them to lay down like that. Good job! Okay this is not a tutorial this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=248.4s	248.4	 is your training session I have to remember that. Okay so now I want to work on going to the bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=253.3s	253.3	 so I'm going to lure him onto the bed into the down position move the treat away mark and reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=259.6s	259.6	 because we've already worked on luring we've already worked on the down a little bit a couple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=263.9s	263.9	 of training sessions so now I want to get rid of having him always getting the treat on the bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=269.6s	269.6	 because when that becomes out of the picture he's going to get confused and think he did something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=274.2s	274.2	 wrong. Free! I'm also working on my release cue and I'm giving him a treat for coming off of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=280.2s	280.2	 bed because that's really going to help him understand the concept of waiting there until
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=285.2s	285.2	 the release cue. So he's doing so well when I lure him I can add the cue for the first time which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=293.0s	293.0	 go to your bed and then lure him mark and then reinforce him with a treat. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=299.4s	299.4	 And then give him more treats for staying there. Good job! And I'm using his kibble and you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 he's much calmer now because that deli meat that was sprinkled throughout there is now gone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=313.0s	313.0	 Thank goodness. Hey Pupsy! So that looks really good so I'm going to say free encourage him off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=319.9s	319.9	 Awesome! And I might do this a couple more times teaching asking him to go to the bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=326.9s	326.9	 and lay down on it. Awesome! And there he's offering that looks really nice. Good job! And as you'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=333.4s	333.4	 notice I'm giving a high rate of reinforcement so even when I'm talking to you I'm reinforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=338.7s	338.7	 him for doing nothing and that's going to really reduce frustration with your puppy. So if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 doing a training session and your puppy keeps getting things wrong so free so maybe you say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=351.4s	351.4	 the puppy doesn't and they just stare at you that's a really awesome behavior for a puppy to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=358.1s	358.1	 when they don't know what to do. So you just need to give them a treat for being patient with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=363.0s	363.0	 because they don't know what you want. So right here I'm giving him a couple treats and then I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=367.3s	367.3	 going to make it easier so I might revert back to just putting a treat on the bed so that he goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=371.5s	371.5	 there and eats the treat and by making it super easy you'll reduce that frustration and over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=377.9s	377.9	 excitement and that's another reason why my puppies look really calm in my videos is because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=384.7s	384.7	 they're not frustrated or overexcited because they're not getting the treat fast enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=389.8s	389.8	 and you're really building that calm relaxed puppy. So I might also add in some handling too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=396.3s	396.3	 while he's on his bed I can pet him calmly and feed a treat like that and look at him he's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=401.9s	401.9	 perfect aren't you? So it's really the training setup that creates how the dog behaves so a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=409.1s	409.1	 of people say why don't you use an overexcited puppy and the reason is is because I wouldn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=415.1s	415.1	 do a training session with an overexcited puppy I would work on the um get get the puppy to be calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=421.4s	421.4	 first before trying to train him a new behavior. This little guy can be overexcited can't you? And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=428.7s	428.7	 that's the times that we don't do training hey puppy. Okay so we worked on this. The other thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=435.2s	435.2	 that I wanted to work on is putting his harness on. He's gonna go on his bed while I get it probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=443.7s	443.7	 and this training session is getting a little long because I'm talking so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=447.4s	447.4	 he's getting a couple extra treats for talking. Do you see how he wants to eat his leash? Well I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=452.2s	452.2	 wasn't planning on that. This is actually um not his leash it's my chihuahua's leash his is in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=458.2s	458.2	 car so he's not seen this leash before and so uh he wants to eat it so instead of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=466.8s	466.8	 I'm going to move the leash and feed a treat. I don't know if you heard that but it's my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=471.5s	471.5	 air conditioning going on and usually I turn it off for videos but because he's a little pup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=477.5s	477.5	 and I don't want him panting in the video because then he'll look stressed I want it to be nice and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=482.7s	482.7	 cool so people don't say oh look your puppy looks stressed. Good so what I'm doing is moving the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=489.1s	489.1	 leash and feeding him a treat at the same time and I will put links to video tutorials on how to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=495.1s	495.1	 all these exercises. Go to the bed uh ignore the leash put on the harness and uh you can check the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=501.7s	501.7	 tutorials out but this is me just working with him. I'm teaching him not to go for the leash by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=507.0s	507.0	 reinforcing the absence of the behavior so he wanted to go for the leash earlier. I can also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=513.4s	513.4	 practice doing this to him. Good good good job. Now we're going to work on this harness which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=524.9s	524.9	 actually a chihuahua harness because you're so tiny. So instead of just trying to put it on I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=533.6s	533.6	 going to hold a treat inside the harness like this and then put it on a little bit as I feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=539.5s	539.5	 him a treat and then take it away. So the harness is going on as I feed a treat. Good job and that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=547.2s	547.2	 going to really reduce the chances of the harness just going into his mouth as I move it towards him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=553.8s	553.8	 or the puppy backing away. So here we go. There we go. Good job and now I'm going to feed him a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=561.2s	561.2	 as I put his foot through and this is not the first time he's worn his harness.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=566.8s	566.8	 This is the seventh day that I've had him. Good boy. So I'm going to clip it on. Yeah there we go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=577.3s	577.3	 Awesome. Good job and then I'm going to put this on. Good good boy. Awesome job and then I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=587.4s	587.4	 to practice moving the leash again now that it's hooked onto him because a lot of times puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=593.2s	593.2	 with a new leash they'll want to bite at the leash. Good job. So the next thing that I'm going to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=598.2s	598.2	 on is feeding him for staying at my side and moving with me when I turn. Are you ready little puppy?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=604.6s	604.6	 So he's used to most of our training being in front of me so he's oriented in front of me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=609.6s	609.6	 so I'm just going to turn to be next to him and make sure that I feed back before he comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=616.6s	616.6	 far ahead because he'll go right in front of me to see my face. Good job. So I'm using my kissy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=623.2s	623.2	 noise to encourage him and then whoops I dropped one. I can mark and feed him for being here at my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=630.5s	630.5	 side and if I don't want him to sit I can just put the treat down on the ground like that so he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=637.0s	637.0	 anticipating the treat coming from the ground if you have a dog that does automatic sits. Good and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=644.2s	644.2	 then I can mark and reinforce him for staying at my side like that. He's going to sit so that went
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=651.4s	651.4	 really well. The next thing I want to work on is the leash pressure game and again I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=656.5s	656.5	 link that in the description below. I don't like to work on exercises too long. This is an eight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=663.0s	663.0	 week old puppy remember that. A little baby so if you just keep drilling the same thing with a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=669.4s	669.4	 they're going to get super bored and that can really turn them off training. So I did a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=674.8s	674.8	 taster of that exercise and we're moving on to the next and I have my puppy's full attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=680.4s	680.4	 Now if I feed a treat or at any point the puppy starts glancing around the room they might be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=685.8s	685.8	 thirsty need to go to the bathroom or they're just bored or not interested in the food anymore and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=691.0s	691.0	 that's when you need to stop and start training at another time. So I've got his full attention his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=696.6s	696.6	 head is always pointed at me and that's why the training session can keep going and I can keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=702.2s	702.2	 going with this tutorial even though it's getting a little bit long. It's the middle of the day so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=708.1s	708.1	 his breakfast was pretty early and he's still got room in his belly because I've measured out the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=714.2s	714.2	 right amount of food to give him. Okay so we're going to work on the leash pressure game which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=718.6s	718.6	 means that I'm going to put a treat down there and then I'm going to mark him returning in my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=723.8s	723.8	 direction. So if he doesn't think to turn I can get the treat and say pop up up and lure him back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=730.2s	730.2	 to me like that. Good job or make my kissy noise to get him back to me and what you don't want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=738.4s	738.4	 do here is mark and feed and then immediately let the dog go back to pulling because the idea is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=745.3s	745.3	 is that you're teaching the dog when they hit the end of the leash it just means to come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=749.5s	749.5	 rather than pull really hard and lean into that pressure which is what they normally want to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=756.0s	756.0	 So you're basically teaching the dog what to do when on a leash and it's really going to reduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=761.0s	761.0	 the frustration that puppies feel when they're out and about and they want to get to something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=765.9s	765.9	 and they can't. So when they feel the pressure it just means to turn back to you and loosen the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=771.9s	771.9	 pressure on the leash. Good job pup pups. So now we're going to practice walking by that thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=777.0s	777.0	 Awesome. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=783.1s	783.1	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=786.8s	786.8	 So he's gone on the other side. I can just lure him back and then start again and you can have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=794.2s	794.2	 the choice to say okay get it and get the treat on the floor. I usually don't tell clients to do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=799.8s	799.8	 I usually have the client just always if there's food on the ground to leave it but with my own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=806.6s	806.6	 dogs I do a lot of behaviors like canine freestyle and stuff like that where the reward is on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=812.0s	812.0	 ground and then I ask for behaviors and then they're allowed to get the reinforcement on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=816.5s	816.5	 ground so that's why I like to sometimes release the dog to the reinforcement. Good job. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=824.6s	824.6	 Okay let's do it again but we'll put the treat over here this time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=829.0s	829.0	 So just changing where the treat is on the ground can make it a whole different picture for the puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=834.8s	834.8	 Pup pups. And you can see he's too close. He started bouncing so when I'm further away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=840.6s	840.6	 those treats it's going to be way easier for him to think to come back to me. Good job. Awesome baby.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=848.0s	848.0	 Let's go over here. Good boy. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=855.2s	855.2	 Good boy. That was great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=862.1s	862.1	 You can also practice walking backwards and having the puppy follow you past the treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=867.2s	867.2	 Good job. And we're just about to end our session. Awesome and he's doing so well. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=875.5s	875.5	 And now I'm going to say okay go get it and then he's going to get his treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=879.3s	879.3	 and that's the end of our session. I hope you found that interesting and helpful for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=884.4s	884.4	 training. If you'd like to support my work don't forget to like, comment, and subscribe to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=890.3s	890.3	 channel. You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4YNSZrrZ68&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=896.2s	896.2	 See you later. Oh you did so good. I'm so proud of you.
