https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I just got this little puppy a day ago and I'm going to show you how I like to train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=5.0s	5.0	 puppies to follow a lure without licking and biting and teach luring as a behavior rather
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=11.0s	11.0	 than just putting the food in the puppy's face and hoping that they can understand what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=15.4s	15.4	 we mean because what often happens is if we've already given them treats like this they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=20.7s	20.7	 think that when we're luring them that we're trying to give them a treat but we're playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=24.3s	24.3	 keep away so that starts to make them try to figure out how to get the treat out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=28.6s	28.6	 your hand and you'll find that they'll want to lick and bite your hand and not really understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 the concept of what they're learning so the way that I like to train it to begin with is simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=39.4s	39.4	 walking backwards and marking the puppy for following so I'm going to walk slowly and when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=47.3s	47.3	 the puppy's up and not sitting like that I'm going to mark and feed and what I'm marking is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=53.8s	53.8	 moving towards the hand with a closed mouth and the puppy's not too excited so if your puppy is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=59.6s	59.6	 really excited by this you can use a lower value treats like their kibble or do this after they've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 had a meal if your puppy is completely disinterested and after you've given a treat your puppy looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=71.5s	71.5	 away you can try using higher value treats or train just before a meal okay so you want to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=80.0s	80.0	 able to lure your puppy with duration before you start to add different behaviors so I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=87.1s	87.1	 practice luring with my right hand good job and I can also practice moving from one hand to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=93.7s	93.7	 other so I'm going to lure him with this hand and then switch over to my right hand so my left hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=100.9s	100.9	 and then switch to the right good you can also practice the skill of luring using a mat or a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=109.7s	109.7	 cone for the puppy to go around or some obstacle like a cone so basically here what I'm doing is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=117.1s	117.1	 I'm feeding him a treat down on the ground and then I'm just holding a treat for him up here and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=121.4s	121.4	 telling him he can get it in my open cupped hand so the treats down there and then I'm just gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=128.1s	128.1	 say get it and then he can go on to the platform to eat the treat like that good job and then for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=134.5s	134.5	 the cone are you ready good job I'm gonna lure him around the cone from a distance that he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=143.5s	143.5	 not licking or biting if I go too long he's gonna start to want to jump for the treat but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=149.9s	149.9	 because this is my puppy I don't want to show you that behavior but all you have to do is say he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=155.8s	155.8	 jumped up and tried to grab the treat then you can work from further away so if the cone was too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=162.3s	162.3	 difficult he's over there and I'm just gonna mark him coming towards me and there's no way a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=168.2s	168.2	 is gonna jump when they're further away from you so you just keep marking them before they get to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=172.9s	172.9	 you so from a distance like this where's the puppy good and I'm putting the food down on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=180.8s	180.8	 ground so the dog is anticipating the food coming from the ground and that will really help with oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 good job with the jumping up to try and get towards the treat good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=191.8s	191.8	 awesome thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=204.8s	204.8	 comment and subscribe to my channel you can also become a supporting member of channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p9osMx1_sGE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=146&pp=iAQB&t=210.0s	210.0	 Kikopup by clicking the join button see you later
