https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this video is on 10 essential behaviors to begin training your puppy in the first week that you bring your puppy home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=9.0s	9.0	 Now I do have a video called what to train first and it really goes over the concept of when you get your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=16.8s	16.8	 That's when you decide what you're going to focus on because a lot of puppies will come with a specific issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=22.9s	22.9	 That needs addressing first. So I'm gonna give you this list of 10 things to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=27.9s	27.9	 But maybe you have a very mouthy puppy and I would say to work on that first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 Alongside with these other behaviors, but make sure you're working on that daily. So you might forget about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=39.9s	39.9	 Teaching your puppy to go in his pen and you're focusing on the mouthing and biting problem that you're having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=45.7s	45.7	 With my latest puppy epic what I focused on the most in the first week was separation training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 But perhaps maybe you bring home a puppy that's very barky and barks a lot that might be something that goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=59.7s	59.7	 Priority on your list, especially if you lived in an apartment to work on that behavior at least one time a day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=66.5s	66.5	 So you might have to put other stuff on the back burner so you can focus on those issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=71.6s	71.6	 Another thing to consider is proactive training for breed specific tendencies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=76.5s	76.5	 So for example, if you had a herding breed puppy, you might want to teach them from day one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=81.3s	81.3	 to become and ignore fast movements such as children playing or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=86.4s	86.4	 bicycles skateboards and joggers if you live on a busy street and or cars and they start hurting those things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=93.0s	93.0	 I would say from day one you want to start working on that or another example is giant breeds if they're going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=100.7s	100.7	 enormous and with a lot of strength you might want to work on first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=106.1s	106.1	 in the first week teaching them not to jump up on people and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=110.6s	110.6	 working on them ignoring food on counters as well as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=114.7s	114.7	 Walking on a loose leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=116.1s	116.1	 Those are three things that you would focus on with a giant breed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=119.7s	119.7	 But you might not need to focus on that for a few weeks with a safe for example, like a little teeny teeny dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=127.3s	127.3	 Now for what I believe to be the ten most essential behaviors to train your puppy in the first week now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=133.9s	133.9	 These are not in any specific order as depending on your puppy's issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=138.2s	138.2	 You might work on one before the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=141.5s	141.5	 Conveniently, I have a tutorial on each of these ten essential behaviors and I'll link the video tutorials in the description below and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=149.9s	149.9	 Remember, you're not going to teach all of the behaviors perfectly in the first seven days that you get your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=156.2s	156.2	 You're beginning the training for each of these ten behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=159.6s	159.6	 so number one is teaching your puppy to play with these toys and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=164.5s	164.5	 Reinforce your puppy playing with his toys as well as chewing on his chews
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 So you want to have your puppy loose in your living room?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 And you're really reinforcing those appropriate choices of what to do when you're loose what to choose to chew on and what to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 With because if you say have your puppy managed in a pen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=184.4s	184.4	 Because you're so busy and you never really get to the point where you're really reinforcing what you do want the puppy to chew on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=190.5s	190.5	 When they're loose in your liver living room, for example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=194.0s	194.0	 They're going to want to chew on everything especially if they're pen in their pen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=198.4s	198.4	 They're allowed to chew on everything. So you really want to reinforce what they what they should be chewing on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=205.0s	205.0	 I suggest having some cool toys around that you interact with often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=209.5s	209.5	 The puppy likes and then get your puppy to play with those toys and interact with those toys when he's feeling like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=216.8s	216.8	 Checking things out in the environment with his mouth or chewing on things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=222.0s	222.0	 When you first bring your puppy home you want to really create a reinforcement history for playing with his toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=228.5s	228.5	 right from the start don't just leave the toys out and hope he'll choose those over your socks and shoes or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 Better yet pick up your socks and shoes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=238.0s	238.0	 So your puppy is more likely to spend the day playing with his toys that you want him to play with rather than your stuff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=246.1s	246.1	 Number two playing the attention game and teaching and attention noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=250.9s	250.9	 The attention game is going to help you build your dog's interest in wanting to be with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 When in your house and went out and about and the attention noise is a great way to get your puppy's attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=264.3s	264.3	 So you can then ask your puppy to do something else and you can also use it to interrupt undesirable behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=271.1s	271.1	 So for example, if they go to chew on your couch, you can use your attention noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=275.7s	275.7	 And I like to use a kissy noise and you can interrupt the puppy from going and chewing on whatever it is that you don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=283.1s	283.1	 Them to mess with in these next two examples
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=286.1s	286.1	 I'm going to show how I use the attention noise to interrupt undesirable behavior in puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=292.1s	292.1	 This little man is chewing on the couch and I'm going to use the attention noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=298.9s	298.9	 To interrupt him and then redirect him to chewing on his dog bone again. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=303.6s	303.6	 Find it extremely important to caution clients to build the strength of the interrupter noise in training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=311.5s	311.5	 Using high-value reinforcers, but then when in a real-life situation like the puppy chewing on the couch or on a shoe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=318.7s	318.7	 You're going to use your kissy noise to get your puppy's attention and then you can redirect them to something that already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=325.7s	325.7	 Exists in the environment like their chew bone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=328.0s	328.0	 So you're not just giving a high level reinforcement every time the dog goes over to try and chew on the couch because that could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=335.3s	335.3	 Inadvertently teach the dog to go and chew on whatever it is to get you to give them a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=341.8s	341.8	 Number three the recall not only is this going to also build your relationship with your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=347.4s	347.4	 But it is another way that you can interrupt your puppy's behavior if they're doing something that you don't like and it's a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=354.6s	354.6	 Emergency behavior if your puppy goes off somewhere and you need to call them back number four
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=360.3s	360.3	 Reinforcing your puppy for walking at your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=362.8s	362.8	 This is going to greatly help your leash walking training if you've already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=367.5s	367.5	 Reinforced the position you want your puppy to be in at your side while standing still and taking steps forward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=374.4s	374.4	 Number five harness and leash games teaching your puppy to be comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=379.2s	379.2	 Having the harness put on and taken off and having the leash dangling from their body
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=384.1s	384.1	 Without thinking to bite at it as well as the beginning of walking on a leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=389.7s	389.7	 Six teaching your puppy a calm settle not only will this be beneficial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=394.8s	394.8	 For teaching your puppy to be calm when food is around say if you're having a party or there's food on the table or you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=401.1s	401.1	 Having dinner, but this is also extremely helpful for teaching duration behaviors like a down stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=408.0s	408.0	 Because what's happening is the puppy is getting used to not getting a treat every single second while they're in a training session
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=415.0s	415.0	 They start to relax and realize that the food is going to come to them just for staying where they are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=421.3s	421.3	 So that is extreme. I like to train the settle first before working on a down stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=427.1s	427.1	 Number seven teaching your puppy to go in a pen or a crate as the beginning of separation training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=433.8s	433.8	 Now in no way do I expect a puppy to learn all these ten behaviors in the first week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=440.3s	440.3	 You're simply beginning these behaviors in the first week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=443.6s	443.6	 So you're not going to have the final finished results of all of these they're the beginning of a work in progress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=449.6s	449.6	 So for example for the go in your crate or go in your pen, maybe in the first week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=454.4s	454.4	 you only get to the step where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=456.5s	456.5	 they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=458.0s	458.0	 Offering going in on their own or staying in there for a few seconds or possibly thinking to lay down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=463.6s	463.6	 But you might not even get to the point where the puppy thinks to lay down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=467.0s	467.0	 When in there and that subtle behavior is really going to help with that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=471.2s	471.2	 Number eight follow a treat lore calmly and take treats nicely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=476.6s	476.6	 Now if your puppy takes treats super hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=479.1s	479.1	 That might be the first thing that you want to work on with your puppy or for example if you're playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=484.4s	484.4	 Attention games and stuff like that you can be putting the food on the floor so that you can avoid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=490.0s	490.0	 Having your hands nibbled during that training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=493.2s	493.2	 But for other behaviors like feeding your puppy a treat for different things you want to work on taking treats nicely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=500.6s	500.6	 I also suggest that you teach luring as a behavior because what can happen is the puppy can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=507.8s	507.8	 frustrated if they're just trying to get the treat out of your hand because they think you're giving them the treat and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=513.6s	513.6	 That's going to interfere with your training and it might set it off to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=518.1s	518.1	 To be where the puppy is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=520.9s	520.9	 frustrated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=522.0s	522.0	 Immediately in training because they don't know what's going on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=524.5s	524.5	 So really building that clarity to the fact that the luring is teaching them some new behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 so once your puppy can follow a lure calmly and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=535.6s	535.6	 For a little bit of duration
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=537.2s	537.2	 Then you can start working on those behaviors that you really want to get such as teaching a sit or down or teaching them to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=544.2s	544.2	 very fun tricks or something like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=547.8s	547.8	 Number nine teaching your puppy not to bite your hands your hair your clothing or bite at your feet when you're moving around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=555.8s	555.8	 Now this is going to take some training if you have a puppy that has that really likes doing this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=561.4s	561.4	 You might have a puppy that doesn't even think to mouth on you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=565.1s	565.1	 But if you do have a puppy that's very mouthy and they're you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=568.7s	568.7	 They keep putting things in their mouth and they keep putting you in their mouth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=571.3s	571.3	 It's not going to quickly magically disappear after one training session
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=575.6s	575.6	 you need to work on training them what you do want them to do and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=579.6s	579.6	 Managing them in between making sure they don't rehearse those undesirable behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=584.9s	584.9	 basically what you're going to be doing is reinforcing your puppy for the absence of the behavior that you don't like in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=591.8s	591.8	 Presence of the stimuli that tend to make it happen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=595.6s	595.6	 so for example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=597.1s	597.1	 if there is some shuffling feet going by or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=600.8s	600.8	 Sweater dangling in their face or perhaps they like to bite hands that come towards their face
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=605.8s	605.8	 You're using counter conditioning where you're reinforcing that these things are nice things and to stay calm when these happen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=612.9s	612.9	 But you're also reinforcing the puppy for doing nothing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=616.2s	616.2	 So they're getting a treat when these things happen for sitting standing or laying calmly and just ignoring these distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=624.0s	624.0	 And understanding that we're brushing them rather than there's this weird object that we're poking them with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=630.8s	630.8	 so it's a great way to build your dog's trust as well in you and also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=637.5s	637.5	 Make it so that when you interact with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=640.0s	640.0	 You're not arousing them the whole time where they think that it's like a game of play where they should be biting your arms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=646.5s	646.5	 Which could seem fun when you have a tiny puppy?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=649.4s	649.4	 But as an adult dog it can be very inappropriate if you have a guest over and they just want to bite their arms or bite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=656.8s	656.8	 their feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=658.2s	658.2	 Number 10 teaching your puppy to drop a chew stick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=661.9s	661.9	 This is a great exercise to play as soon as you get your puppy to teach them that they don't need to run away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=668.2s	668.2	 From you if they have something as well as not to guard it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=673.0s	673.0	 That you're not going to just take away what they have and that they need to worry about that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=677.6s	677.6	 so it's the beginning steps to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=680.4s	680.4	 teaching a leave it teaching your puppy to drop it and also feeling safe when you come and take something that they have and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=687.9s	687.9	 It all begins with you holding the object letting your puppy chew on it and then presenting them with a high-value treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=694.1s	694.1	 So they want to drop it so you're building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=697.1s	697.1	 Right from the start when you get your puppy that they want to drop things for you and that it's highly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=703.8s	703.8	 Reinforcing where if you wait to work on this exercise what can happen is the puppy is gonna have stuff in their mouth sticks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=711.2s	711.2	 outside trash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=713.8s	713.8	 Things that they shouldn't eat things that you highly value and you're gonna try and get it out of their mouth and they're gonna find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=720.0s	720.0	 Out from day one. Oh my gosh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=722.1s	722.1	 It's so punishing when that person comes over and takes whatever it is out of my mouth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=727.4s	727.4	 Because they remove the good thing that I had which is technically punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=732.1s	732.1	 So they're gonna be less likely to let you take things out of their mouth and try to run away with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=737.4s	737.4	 It's not because they're being stubborn or disobedient. It's just that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=743.6s	743.6	 Behave the behaviors that they're learning is to avoid things that are punishing which is you coming to take what they have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=750.3s	750.3	 It's important to remember that you're just beginning the training of these ten behaviors. Don't feel overwhelmed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=756.9s	756.9	 Ten behaviors isn't that much because one thing that you can do is every day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=761.6s	761.6	 You could select five different behaviors to work on and then switch them up over the seven
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=767.4s	767.4	 You know seven days of the week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=769.1s	769.1	 so perhaps on the first day you might play the attention game and then you work on settle and then you work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=778.1s	778.1	 Following a lure a treat lure and that's only gonna be perhaps 30 seconds that you work with your dog on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=784.3s	784.3	 Following a treat lure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=785.3s	785.3	 So if you are, you know, you don't have very much time to work with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=790.5s	790.5	 You can do five minutes a day and just make sure to work on different behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=795.9s	795.9	 In in the training session or do three really short training sessions like a one minute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=802.1s	802.1	 Spread throughout the day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=803.7s	803.7	 But it really depends on your puppy as to how long how much training they can do in a day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=809.4s	809.4	 Especially if you have a teeny tiny dog that can't take very much food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=813.2s	813.2	 so you might even do less training with a dog like that just because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=818.0s	818.0	 even with tiny treats they can't do as much as say a huge great Dane that can take in a lot of food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=825.5s	825.5	 Thank you so much for watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=827.2s	827.2	 If you'd like to support my work, don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIfjRt_0jqU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=149&pp=iAQB&t=832.2s	832.2	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kiko pup by clicking the join button. See you later
