https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody, this video is on the topic of why trainers using a positive reinforcement protocol
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=7.0s	7.0	 avoid punishing warning signs in dogs when working on changing their behavior and emotional response
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 in response to triggers that cause the dog to act aggressive, reactive, fearful, or overexcited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=23.0s	23.0	 When training a dog using positive reinforcement to change the dog's emotional response and behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=30.0s	30.0	 in regards to a specific stimulus or trigger that they used to react to in an aggressive way, a fearful way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=38.0s	38.0	 a shy way, or an overexcited way, oftentimes people get into the problem of what to do if the dog has gone over threshold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=48.0s	48.0	 and they're offering undesirable behaviors such as warning signs or signs of over arousal and stress.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 Oftentimes clients and students will ask me shouldn't we punish these behaviors because we never want to see them again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=64.0s	64.0	 and I like to tell them that behaviors that are rehearsed are more likely to happen in the future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 so the goal with the training is to not have those behaviors happen again and set the criteria up so the dog can be successful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=80.0s	80.0	 so going in smaller steps to try and avoid those moments when the dog is over threshold and when it happens to interrupt it as soon as possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 so for me, in my opinion, I like to end those behaviors as soon as I can using behaviors that have been previously trained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=98.0s	98.0	 so you're giving the dog an alternate behavior to do that's been trained using positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 so perhaps if the dog is whining or lunging or barking you can say leave it, let's go and go the other way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=112.0s	112.0	 or a recall come or an attention noise or your dog's name and I have a list of 10 ways to interrupt behavior in a video that explains each
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=122.0s	122.0	 and I'll link that in the description below this video but oftentimes if you're not a dog trainer you might not hear this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=132.0s	132.0	 but it's very common for people to say never punish a growl when a dog is guarding something because that's a warning sign that the dog is uncomfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=142.0s	142.0	 and if you punish the warning signs dogs might stop growling and then go to the next step which is biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=149.0s	149.0	 so I believe the same goes for other warning signs when working on changing a dog's behavior using positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=157.0s	157.0	 now of course there are trainers who use compulsion to train dogs and of course they're using punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=164.0s	164.0	 so this is about positive reinforcement training and being able to see how to progress when you're doing counter conditioning or desensitization
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=175.0s	175.0	 or training a new behavior that you want to replace the old behavior so by interrupting behaviors you don't like that the dog is offering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=185.0s	185.0	 say they're starting to growl, whine, jump on the handler, bite at the leash, lunge, bark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=192.0s	192.0	 you can interrupt that with a positively trained cue, a cue trained with positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=199.0s	199.0	 and then you're going to go back a step in your training to where the dog is comfortable and successful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=205.0s	205.0	 and gradually build on criteria with the dog under threshold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=211.0s	211.0	 and the reason that I love to do this is that what can happen is with every dog you start to see the before warning signs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=219.0s	219.0	 so the dog might start to pace a little bit before he then starts whining
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=224.0s	224.0	 or the dog might start not taking treats before he then jumps up and grabs the leash or starts to bark at the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=232.0s	232.0	 or the dog might get still before he barks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 so by interrupting the dog before he gets to the undesirable behavior you're not going to be reinforcing that undesirable behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=245.0s	245.0	 or letting it be rehearsed and making it more likely to happen in the future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=249.0s	249.0	 so as you go through the training there are going to be smaller tiny warning signs that you can pick up on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=255.0s	255.0	 just the dog's tenseness in his body, perhaps he's laying down and he stands up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=261.0s	261.0	 and those are moments you can interrupt and prevent the dog even doing those undesirable warning signs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=268.0s	268.0	 and then the wonderful thing is that when you are in a situation where the dog is uncomfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=273.0s	273.0	 and the dog is uncomfortable they're going to go through the different warning signs starting with the most minimal one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=279.0s	279.0	 and going to the most undesirable one rather than if you punish the dog for the minimal warning signs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=288.0s	288.0	 they might jump right to defending themselves or doing something that doesn't involve what you've punished before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=298.0s	298.0	 so that's why I like to do it, it makes it really easy to know how to raise and lower criteria
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=304.0s	304.0	 when you haven't punished any of their behavior because it's just coming out of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=309.0s	309.0	 you'll see the response to whatever it is in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=312.0s	312.0	 and that gives you information about how to change the environment to train the dog in a way that's going to be successful using positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=322.0s	322.0	 thank you so much for watching, if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=328.0s	328.0	 you can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PEiACncIkVg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=150&pp=iAQB&t=333.0s	333.0	 see you later
