https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, I'm Emily Larlem aka Kikopup on YouTube and this video is on the topic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=6.6s	6.6	 of teaching your dog to walk on a loose leash towards something he's very excited to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=12.3s	12.3	 to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=13.3s	13.3	 So perhaps it is a dog park that he's anticipating playing with other dogs, perhaps it's getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 to your house after getting out of the car or getting to the car out of exiting your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=26.1s	26.1	 or pulling across a road to smell something.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=30.2s	30.2	 So basically dogs move at a faster pace than we do and when they know where they want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=35.9s	35.9	 go, they want to get there fast.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=37.4s	37.4	 So for us, it would be the same as being told to walk this slow when we wanted to get somewhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=45.8s	45.8	 It's very stressful and frustrating, but by using positive reinforcement, we can reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=51.6s	51.6	 for going at the speed that we want them to and by making what they want to do contingent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=57.9s	57.9	 on walking on a loose leash, we can reinforce the loose leash walking with something they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=63.0s	63.0	 really want.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 However, if we were just to try and get the dog to walk, stay there Epic, if we were just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=69.9s	69.9	 going to try and get the dog to walk on a loose leash for the thing that they're very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=75.2s	75.2	 excited about, it's going to be very stressful and frustrating and if a dog is very aroused,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=80.1s	80.1	 they're not going to learn as well as when they're calm.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=82.9s	82.9	 So we can break the steps up into small steps that are easy and less frustrating for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=88.4s	88.4	 dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=89.4s	89.4	 Some things to work on first to make it easier for your dog to do this type of training is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 working on a calm settle and a settle on a mat and I'll link a video in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=100.0s	100.0	 below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=101.0s	101.0	 So another thing you can do is get the dog used to wearing the harness and the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=106.9s	106.9	 these don't predict being very excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=109.5s	109.5	 So you can just put the harness on and then drop some treats and feed your dog for settling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 on a leash or say for example if you have a backyard, you could put the harness on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=120.7s	120.7	 dog while in the backyard so they don't get all disappointed that they're not going for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=124.5s	124.5	 a walk or you can just put the harness and leash on, begin a training session and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=129.5s	129.5	 just take the leash off and then when your dog settles, you can start to reinforce them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=134.0s	134.0	 with food and also work on clipping the leash on when your dog is settled as you feed a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=140.1s	140.1	 treat so this doesn't mean to get super excited because if your dog is just getting super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=145.3s	145.3	 excited by the leash and harness, it's really not going to help in the situation where you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=151.4s	151.4	 want your dog to be calm and not pull.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=153.4s	153.4	 It's just going to add to the excitement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=155.6s	155.6	 So anything that comes before or predicts that the dog is going to have an exciting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=161.3s	161.3	 time and there's a distance between you and where they want to get to such as going out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 the door or getting out of a car or being in a car, you can work on calmness in those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 situations so for example right now we can work on just relaxing in front of the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=178.6s	178.6	 that we go out to the exciting place that she likes to go so for my dogs, I've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=183.9s	183.9	 letting them run from my one door down to the, I can't say it because they'll get very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=188.6s	188.6	 excited where we do training together so when I try to walk them down on the leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=195.1s	195.1	 they get very excited and they pull and it's extremely embarrassing if I have like a client
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 down there and then my dogs are pulling towards them, it looks like they're completely untrained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=204.9s	204.9	 so we're going to work on it and I thought I would show you the training process so one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=210.5s	210.5	 thing is working on just being calm before we even start so if your dog was excited in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=217.8s	217.8	 the car, it's extremely boring training but you simply need to work on settle in the car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=223.0s	223.0	 so you can go to the car with a bag of really delicious treats and just work on the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=227.9s	227.9	 getting in and out of the crate for treats and then laying in there for a couple of,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=232.7s	232.7	 you know a minute or two and then getting out and then when your dog is comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=236.5s	236.5	 with the concept of being trained in the car and that they're not going on a journey, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=240.7s	240.7	 can start to work on a settle where you're just hanging out but sometimes if you just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=245.2s	245.2	 go straight to the settle, the dog can get a little bit stressed because they think they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 going on a car journey and they won't settle so you can't reinforce them for just relaxing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=253.9s	253.9	 because they don't relax, they just get more stressed so if that ever happens, I would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 discontinue it or see if the dog can take treats or take a break, get out of the car,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=262.1s	262.1	 get back in and just practice getting in and out of the car, that can help change the picture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=266.6s	266.6	 for the dog to know they're not going to the exciting place and that they can relax a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=271.7s	271.7	 The other idea is to go places with your dog in your car, have the dog settle in the car with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=277.6s	277.6	 door open and then just work on settle in front of the car or asking your dog to sniff around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=285.0s	285.0	 in a calm manner after getting out rather than it be about playing. Are you interested in training?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=290.9s	290.9	 I should have trained you first before making this video. Okay so now we're going to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 settling in front of the door. The other dog that has this issue is this guy. Oh the other tip is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 that it's a great idea to when you first begin this training is to give the dog some mental and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=309.7s	309.7	 physical stimulation before you do this type of training which I haven't done with her. So these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=315.1s	315.1	 guys have gone for a walk and poor little epic here hasn't had any training or walking yet so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=321.7s	321.7	 can see the difference in their behavior and it's not about a tired dog is a good dog, it's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=328.1s	328.1	 about tiring the dog out, it's about reducing their excitement about getting to play at this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=334.9s	334.9	 particular moment. Then when you're having success with this training you're going to start doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=339.7s	339.7	 this stuff before the dog goes for a walk or does some physical activity. Okay so now we're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=347.3s	347.3	 to practice in front of the door. So this is Wish's settle mat and I'm going to put it here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=352.8s	352.8	 just so that it makes a different picture than when we usually go out of the DOOR. So here it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=359.7s	359.7	 is over here and then I'm going to walk her over calmly. Good good and I'm using a high rate of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=370.2s	370.2	 reinforcement like this by just dropping treats so that it's a different picture than when we just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=376.7s	376.7	 go out there to do something fun. So then I can sigh and I can sit down with her and here comes epic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=387.1s	387.1	 and see if she might think to relax and if not I can help her by giving her a little hint. So you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=393.6s	393.6	 can just chill and hang out maybe read a book or look at your phone next to the door or in your car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=399.7s	399.7	 with the doors open on a nice cool morning or out just outside of your car if that's if your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=406.1s	406.1	 comfortable and taking treats out there but if you're in your home and there are no distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=411.6s	411.6	 you can work on some calm handling here because obviously if you have the treats right near your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=417.3s	417.3	 dog they might not think to stop thinking about the food so you could just work on calm handling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=424.6s	424.6	 and treats for just laying calmly even though their focus is on the treats like this. If your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=431.3s	431.3	 dog isn't taking treats near the door you can first work on the settle in your living room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=436.9s	436.9	 or just hang out with your dog maybe take them out for a toilet break first before then working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=442.3s	442.3	 this exercise. Now she's doing so good I'm going to crack the door a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=451.0s	451.0	 good and I'm going to feed her a treat as I open the door like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=454.9s	454.9	 So usually the door opening makes them very excited so I can just practice the door being open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=462.3s	462.3	 while she's settling and then I can close it again and just practice touching the knob so the knob
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=469.2s	469.2	 doesn't mean get excited. This is actually part of Karen Overall's relaxation protocol
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=476.2s	476.2	 is getting the dog desensitizing and counter conditioning the dog to things that make them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=482.1s	482.1	 things that make them excited or could make them excited so the door knob the door opening
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=489.1s	489.1	 and you're just working on these don't mean anything exciting. Now the door is open and we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=494.5s	494.5	 can work on settling on the mat again and then when your dog is really good at that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=499.5s	499.5	 release your dog let's go and move away from the mat into your house and then move back to the mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=506.1s	506.1	 and lay down again. Good job and if your dog is really good at that you can start to go out the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=512.5s	512.5	 door let's go good and then come back to the mat good job and you're highly reinforcing your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=523.6s	523.6	 for going back to the mat and as you step let's go you feed multiple treats every little mini step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=531.0s	531.0	 you take and then return to the mat because most likely your dog will want to run out the door or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=537.2s	537.2	 run out the car to go where they want to go. Now if your dog isn't taking treats you can simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=545.2s	545.2	 get out of the car or get out of the door and then come back in close the door and let your dog calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=551.7s	551.7	 down a little bit. It's a great idea to brush up on your leash walking skills inside the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=558.3s	558.3	 and in your yard so your dog has been highly reinforced for walking with you when there hasn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=563.5s	563.5	 been any sort of conflict so I suggest doing that first before working on the super exciting thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=568.6s	568.6	 of pulling towards where they want to get to go. So I actually have a six-week course on loose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=574.5s	574.5	 leash walking that's on my website and I'll link that in the description below but I do have a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=579.3s	579.3	 of videos on YouTube that are free so one of them one of the games you can play is marking and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=586.0s	586.0	 reinforcing for the dog understanding to stay at your side like this and take a step forward when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=592.7s	592.7	 you take a step forward and being highly reinforced for this position at your side and then the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=599.5s	599.5	 game that you can play is the let's go game where you take a step and turn in the other direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=605.7s	605.7	 and mark for your dog choosing to move with you so if you turn around your dog turns with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=611.7s	611.7	 and I'll link a video in the description below on how to train that and working on the leash pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=617.2s	617.2	 game so if your dog is excited to get somewhere and they pull on leash you're teaching them before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=623.1s	623.1	 they do it that when they feel the pressure on leash it simply means move back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=630.1s	630.1	 good boy good boy the other really awesome game to play with your dog is approaching distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=640.6s	640.6	 that are very exciting but beginning with something that's not too exciting so you put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=646.2s	646.2	 some treats down on the floor like this I don't know if you can see them in in the shot but there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=652.1s	652.1	 some treats down there and then what I'm going to do is first mark and reinforce the dog for staying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=658.6s	658.6	 at my side and then taking a mini step forward like this and then when we get to the treats I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=665.0s	665.0	 going to release her and say okay get it in a calm way if you say okay get it that can excite the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=672.2s	672.2	 dog quite a lot so the calmer your release the better the next step is seeing if you can take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=679.4s	679.4	 a couple steps forwards and stop before reaching the treats and then the final step this way is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=688.1s	688.1	 seeing if you can walk all the way to the treats stopping on the way over and then only getting the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=694.5s	694.5	 treats when you say okay go get them and then what you can do with this is use it for any situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=701.3s	701.3	 where the dog is focused on getting somewhere such as crossing the road you can practice putting the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=707.7s	707.7	 treats in a bowl across the road or putting the treats somewhere outside and putting a toy if the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=713.8s	713.8	 dog likes their toy can you walk on a loose leash to the toy and that means play I also have a video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=721.6s	721.6	 on how to teach your dog to be calmer around toys if you are going somewhere like a park to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=727.7s	727.7	 play with a ball or or a frisbee with your dog so I'll link the video on how to teach your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=735.4s	735.4	 be calm around frisbees and toys but basically it's this game where the dog doesn't know you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=740.5s	740.5	 have it and they're really calm and then you present it and then you play with them ready catch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=745.5s	745.5	 good yeah twirl get it drop spin get it good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=751.7s	751.7	 drop and so now I've got her used to playing with me with the frisbee here and then I can have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=759.4s	759.4	 door open and I actually have this gate here so that I can have my door open and do stuff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=765.7s	765.7	 without worrying about the dogs leaving my house which is a great idea you can also have the gate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=772.7s	772.7	 on the outside of the door for safety and then play with my dog with the door open oh hello
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=782.1s	782.1	 get it drop it's halo's turn ready get it good job and then the next step if you wanted to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=790.9s	790.9	 on teaching your dog to be excited about being with you when you leave a car and you have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=797.2s	797.2	 walk a long distance to a field that's safe to play with them is you can have your dog on leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=802.5s	802.5	 get out of the car and then play little cat drop little catch games like this in front of the car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=809.3s	809.3	 drop so at first the dog might not want to play with the toy near you or near the door because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=816.2s	816.2	 they are desperate to get to the area that they anticipate the play so sometimes when you bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=822.9s	822.9	 the toy out they won't even notice it but what you can do is have the door open a crack where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=828.7s	828.7	 someone's guarding it or you know you have a safety method like this or your dog's on a leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=833.8s	833.8	 and you simply wait till they calm down and they want to play with you before you get out the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=839.7s	839.7	 and that way if you have a toy you have something reinforcing that the dog is anticipating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=845.5s	845.5	 with you rather than it always being at the in a distance in the distance and the same with building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=852.0s	852.0	 your treats to be reinforcing so this idea of calming the dog down so they're able to work for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=857.4s	857.4	 food is going to mean that everything they want isn't always far away that they're stressed about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=863.2s	863.2	 getting to and that you actually control it and by reducing their excitement about getting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=869.1s	869.1	 different places that's highly going to help with the pulling towards the places drop because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=877.0s	877.0	 even if you work and you proof walking on a loose leash if the dog is just too excited that can all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=883.1s	883.1	 just get thrown out the window wishy boop now we're right outside the front door and i'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=892.3s	892.3	 to encourage wish to play with the frisbee with me near the door rather than in the field so she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=898.5s	898.5	 doesn't have that anticipation of getting all the way down there to have the fun wait good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=906.2s	906.2	 sit wave good good bring drop now i'm going to take a couple of steps towards the destination
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=920.0s	920.0	 and when she's walking nicely on a loose leash i'm going to turn around and play with her near the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=925.2s	925.2	 front door so if you're by your car you could play with your dog by your car take a few steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=930.9s	930.9	 you could play with your dog by your car take a few steps towards the field
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=935.1s	935.1	 or the area they're going to play the dog park
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=940.8s	940.8	 let's go good job boom if your dog pulls ahead you can simply use the leash pressure game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=951.2s	951.2	 wait and make a connection with your dog and then move forwards if your dog hits the end of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=956.9s	956.9	 leash like that and then you go back and then you go forward again the dog most likely is not going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=963.0s	963.0	 to calm down so you can just walk if they hit the end of the leash take some time to get your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=971.9s	971.9	 to stay at your side and connect with you before then moving forward again good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=981.7s	981.7	 good job drop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=999.6s	999.6	 if your dog pulls ahead like that you can walk back to the car or the house and see if your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1006.2s	1006.2	 can connect with you again and then you can take just a step forward good and then reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1013.7s	1013.7	 i wouldn't worry so much about the dog being perfectly next to you drop you can clean that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1019.3s	1019.3	 up later but simply focus on you want the length of the leash how you're going to have it and that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1025.1s	1025.1	 the dog's walking on a loose leash so they're conscious of when they feel the pressure on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1029.6s	1029.6	 leash that they come back to you so if i wanted to walk my dog on a longer leash as long as they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1035.3s	1035.3	 staying without leash pressure then that's awesome they don't have to be right at your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1042.0s	1042.0	 as long as they're conscious about the leash pressure if you wanted your dog closer to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1046.1s	1046.1	 when they're excited like this it's going to be harder so i suggest just having a short leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1051.2s	1051.2	 so they feel the pressure on the leash when they get too far ahead like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1055.7s	1055.7	 good boom awesome it's a little tricky playing with a dog and a leash it's much easier to work on this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1065.5s	1065.5	 exercise with treats but one thing you can do is hold the leash in the opposite hand that the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1074.1s	1074.1	 on and the reinforcement the treat or the toy in the hand that the dog is going to be next to your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1080.5s	1080.5	 side so that when the reinforcement comes it comes from behind the dog it appears and is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1088.1s	1088.1	 anticipated from behind rather than the picture of what they want is in front of them and they pull
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1092.9s	1092.9	 toward so that's really going to help also the frisbee and the food is not in the picture of what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1098.5s	1098.5	 the dog can see so it's easier to fade it to where the dog is just anticipating going where they want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1104.2s	1104.2	 to go good the important step to get to the point where you don't need a frisbee or treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1112.1s	1112.1	 is reinforcing your dog for walking to where they want to go without looking at you because that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1118.1s	1118.1	 moment that they look where they want to go most dogs usually start to speed up so once you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1123.5s	1123.5	 doing really well and you can take quite a few steps towards where you want to go you're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1127.4s	1127.4	 to start marking when the dog looks at what they want to get to and then you're going to start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1131.3s	1131.3	 when the dog looks at what they want to get to and they're not speeding up so they're walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1136.2s	1136.2	 at the pace that you want either a walk or a trot depending on how fast you walk wishy swing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1144.1s	1144.1	 good and there i marked her looking back at me so i'm going to make sure to mark her drop for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1150.1s	1150.1	 looking at where we're going drop ready so you might just walk a few more steps good get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1157.9s	1157.9	 woohoo drop so now i'm just going to put this down here leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1169.6s	1169.6	 good get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1174.2s	1174.2	 you did it boom you can also practice this off leash come on wish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1182.9s	1182.9	 wishy swing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1187.3s	1187.3	 so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1203.7s	1203.7	 good get it good girl if you're using treats you can simply mark and reinforce your dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1212.8s	1212.8	 staying at your side when you've left the car or you left your front door and you're just going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1217.9s	1217.9	 to mark and reinforce your dog standing at your side and then taking a step forward good and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1223.6s	1223.6	 marking and reinforcing for the dog waiting there and then you can increase the duration of how long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1229.7s	1229.7	 your dog stands and then you can increase how far you walk like that so then you can practice let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1236.0s	1236.0	 go and go back to where you came from mark and reinforce and you can ask your dog to settle on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1241.7s	1241.7	 mat if you wish and then when your dog is doing really good you can take more steps and mark and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1248.5s	1248.5	 reinforce for your dog's face facing in the direction and looking at where they want to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1254.9s	1254.9	 let's go good good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1260.3s	1260.3	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1265.0s	1265.0	 let's go good girl whoops if the dog goes out ahead of you you can lure them back and also make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1274.3s	1274.3	 that when you take a step forward like this that your hand can come in front of them like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1279.7s	1279.7	 and prevent them from spinning in front of you and just facing you like that so that's why it's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1285.6s	1285.6	 great idea to hold the treats behind you when doing this training because the treats come from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1290.4s	1290.4	 behind and the dog is anticipating reinforcement from behind like that good awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1315.6s	1315.6	 let's go yay awesome good girl whoo if you have more than one dog i suggest working on each dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1336.2s	1336.2	 one at a time while the other dog is put away maybe in a room with music and a chew toy where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1342.1s	1342.1	 they can't hear what's going on in case they get excited about what you're doing or maybe you go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1347.3s	1347.3	 on an outing with just one dog to the park or someone else can walk one of the other dogs or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1353.0s	1353.0	 the other dogs while you're working on this training and then when each dog is doing wonderfully
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1357.7s	1357.7	 you can go right back to the start as if you never trained them before to set them up for success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1363.3s	1363.3	 that when they're with each other things get even calmer so here we are with wish and halo who are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1369.7s	1369.7	 the ones that like to run like the wind down there for training because they love to play fast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1378.0s	1378.0	 games for toys down there and so here they are settling for food and then when i begin walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1385.0s	1385.0	 with both i'm gonna say let's go and then just feed them here so i'm not even gonna think about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1392.9s	1392.9	 having them at my side i might just feed them in front of me like this for following me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1398.1s	1398.1	 because they have a huge habit of being very excited about racing down there good wishy good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1409.7s	1409.7	 good the leash pressure game tutorial this video is on the topic of teaching your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1416.9s	1416.9	 what to do when he feels pressure on leash either when he's run out and hit the end of the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1423.5s	1423.5	 or when you've had to add pressure say for example your puppy runs into the road and you need to move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1429.4s	1429.4	 your puppy out of the road using leash pressure now of course you can pick your puppy up in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1435.6s	1435.6	 emergencies but if you have a puppy that's going to turn into a larger adult dog at some point in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1441.8s	1441.8	 his life you're going to need to have to move your puppy with the leash now without any prior training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1448.5s	1448.5	 most puppies and dogs when you pull on their leash they one find it aversive and two usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1456.1s	1456.1	 lean the other way the same with human beings if you had a harness tied around your chest with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1462.1s	1462.1	 leash coming out of it and someone pulled on it you naturally would counterbalance by leaning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1468.5s	1468.5	 backwards rather than just following whoever pulls you so basically in this exercise we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1475.0s	1475.0	 teaching puppies that when they feel the pressure on the leash it's simply a cue saying come with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1482.1s	1482.1	 we're moving in a different direction and by creating a positive association with the feeling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1487.7s	1487.7	 of pressure on the leash it simply becomes a cue for the dog to want to move with you now if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1493.6s	1493.6	 work on this exercise with a young puppy right from the beginning before the puppy starts pulling a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1499.6s	1499.6	 lot on the leash when you're out and about it actually can teach your puppy to walk on a loose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1504.7s	1504.7	 leash this is because if you work on the exercise enough your dog is going to have a conditioned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1510.1s	1510.1	 response where they feel the pressure on the leash and it will cue them to come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1515.7s	1515.7	 here are some exercises you should work on first before playing the leash pressure game with your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1520.5s	1520.5	 puppy this is because you want to reinforce your puppy for moving towards you moving with you and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1527.2s	1527.2	 moving with you when you make direction changes and once you've reinforced all of these behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1532.6s	1532.6	 it will make it way easier for the puppy to want to choose to move with you when you add the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1538.0s	1538.0	 pressure in my opinion the four exercises that you want to work on first are the attention game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1545.2s	1545.2	 the recall reinforcing your puppy for standing next to you and walking next to you and reinforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1552.1s	1552.1	 your puppy for direction changes while walking at your side check out the written description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1559.3s	1559.3	 for links to video tutorials on how to train these this is footage of one of our first outings to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1566.3s	1566.3	 park after letting my puppy explore and sniff the park i spent one to two minutes playing the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1573.0s	1573.0	 attention game reinforcing the position at my side and direction changes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1578.5s	1578.5	 the leash pressure game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1582.7s	1582.7	 step one add light pressure on the leash as you lower your puppy forward and then feed a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1590.5s	1590.5	 the point of this step is to accustom the puppy to the sensation of the leash pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1595.6s	1595.6	 so it's not a sudden surprise i suggest attaching the leash to your dog's harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1601.6s	1601.6	 when you play games like this as well as walk your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1604.8s	1604.8	 if you're going to be walking your dog with the leash attached to the front of your dog's harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1609.2s	1609.2	 you need to work on this exercise with the leash attached to the front as well as the back keep an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1614.5s	1614.5	 eye on your puppy's tail and make sure it's in a natural position and the puppy is not tucking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1619.4s	1619.4	 their tail if the puppy starts to tuck the tail you can work on games like the attention game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1625.1s	1625.1	 the recall as well as handling exercises rather than working on the leash pressure game you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1631.6s	1631.6	 exercise rather than working on the leash pressure game yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1635.9s	1635.9	 step two put a distraction down on the ground that makes the puppy pull on leash use your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1642.1s	1642.1	 attention noise or a treat lure to get your puppy to turn around and come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1661.6s	1661.6	 so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1668.0s	1668.0	 what to do if your puppy doesn't turn around one practice from further away from the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1674.1s	1674.1	 you can have a helper put down the distraction to make this easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1678.5s	1678.5	 to use a lower value treat as the distraction and a higher value treat as the reinforcer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1685.1s	1685.1	 step three put a distraction down on the ground that makes the puppy pull on leash when the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1691.1s	1691.1	 is on a tight leash move in the opposite direction of the puppy without jerking him mark and reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1698.2s	1698.2	 when you see your puppy turn in your direction if the puppy doesn't turn toward you within two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1703.9s	1703.9	 seconds use your attention noise or treat lure to get your puppy to turn around and come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1710.3s	1710.3	 get your puppy to turn around and come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1718.4s	1718.4	 good boy good boy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1726.8s	1726.8	 mark the moment the puppy turns towards you and feed the puppy the treat as close to your body
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1732.9s	1732.9	 as you can to train the puppy to come all the way to you mark and reinforce multiple times for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1740.8s	1740.8	 the puppy being at your side or being in front of you before you repeat the exercise if your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1748.5s	1748.5	 sits or lays down simply revert back to using the treat lure so she went out she felt the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1756.4s	1756.4	 pressure and that made her want to come back and not be on a tight leash basically you're teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1762.1s	1762.1	 the dog when they feel the tight leash they should come near you to loosen the leash now if you keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1768.0s	1768.0	 proofing this game your dog is going to generalize it so you can use different types of food different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1774.1s	1774.1	 types of toys different types of people and dogs and places to sniff of like a fire hydrant you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1782.5s	1782.5	 going to teach your dog when they see things they want the only way to get there is on a loose leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1788.6s	1788.6	 keep that box so i'm going to move the distraction over here and do it again again so pressure on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1798.4s	1798.4	 leash click and feed what you're not doing is jerking your dog you're holding the leash against
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1803.9s	1803.9	 your body to move your dog good job and be careful that you don't back up and trip on something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1810.1s	1810.1	 because that happens to me a lot especially in public step four practice with different distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1816.9s	1816.9	 in different situations i suggest playing this game for one to two minutes 10 to 12 times in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1824.9s	1824.9	 first few weeks that you own your new puppy or dog this is martinez bordacali lumos at six months
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1833.1s	1833.1	 and you can see he has a positive emotional response when he feels the pressure on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1837.7s	1837.7	 leash and he knows what to do when he feels the pressure if you notice your dog starts to pull
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1844.9s	1844.9	 again it's a great idea to go back and do brush up training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1853.7s	1853.7	 here's an example of working on the leash pressure game with a high level distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1858.3s	1858.3	 if something is too much for your dog you'll notice that they won't be able to turn away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1863.2s	1863.2	 the distraction so if this happens you need to make the distraction less exciting or move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1868.9s	1868.9	 further away from the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1878.4s	1878.4	 if you're doing this exercise correctly you'll find that your puppy will stop pulling all together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1883.8s	1883.8	 this is a good thing if he keeps trying to go for the distraction it means the distraction is too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1889.4s	1889.4	 difficult too close or you need to spend more time marking and reinforcing him for staying with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1897.2s	1897.2	 after he comes back in real life situations if your puppy starts pulling on leash you can simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1904.1s	1904.1	 back up until he is on a loose leash then wait a bit until you have made a connection with him again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1910.1s	1910.1	 before walking forward thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1915.4s	1915.4	 don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel you can also become a supporting member
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XzwUmSHyIc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=151&pp=iAQB&t=1921.3s	1921.3	 of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button see you later wishy can you sit pretty can you do both
