https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, today I'm asking one of the world's leading experts in canine aggression
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=6.0s	6.0	 cases how to choose a muzzle, how to measure a muzzle, and what to look for.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=12.1s	12.1	 I'm extremely honored to welcome Michael Cicaccio to talk on channel Kikopup.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=17.4s	17.4	 He is the past president of the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=23.4s	23.4	 and he works exclusively with aggression cases through his website aggressivedog.com.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 I'm going to link lots of links and information about him in the description below, as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=35.2s	35.2	 as information on this topic of choosing the right muzzle for your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=40.4s	40.4	 Hey everyone, have you been considering getting a muzzle for your dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=43.9s	43.9	 You're just not sure which kind to get or how to get the right fit for your dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 Well, this video is for you because we're going to talk all about muzzles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=51.3s	51.3	 So there's three things I look for when I'm shopping for a muzzle for a dog, and that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=56.1s	56.1	 comfort for the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=57.2s	57.2	 I want them to be really comfortable with wearing whatever muzzle I get for them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=61.2s	61.2	 I'm looking for safety for whatever the dog is trying to bite or has bitten in the past,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=66.3s	66.3	 and I'm looking for the ability to be able to feed treats or food through the front of the muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=71.5s	71.5	 So let's talk about that comfort aspect first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=74.3s	74.3	 So one thing I'll start right off with is these vinyl sleeve muzzles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=78.1s	78.1	 You might have seen these before, and I don't recommend these from a comfort level especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=83.7s	83.7	 because they don't allow for the dog to do some of the things I look for and the comfort
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=89.1s	89.1	 of the muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=89.8s	89.8	 So being able to eat, drink, yawn, pant, or even vomit should all be able to happen with a muzzle on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=97.3s	97.3	 and the only thing that's going to prevent them from doing is biting in most cases.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=100.5s	100.5	 So these vinyl sleeve muzzles unfortunately don't allow for many of those things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=103.9s	103.9	 The dog can't pant or yawn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=106.1s	106.1	 They are okay for a very quick vet visit or something where you, maybe an emergency scenario
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=111.4s	111.4	 or you need a muzzle on a dog, but preferably it's always better to acclimate a dog to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=115.8s	115.8	 basket muzzle that they could use in circumstances that they might need it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=119.8s	119.8	 So it's always better to take your time and get them used to wearing a basket muzzle so you don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=123.7s	123.7	 have to use one of these.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=125.7s	125.7	 So looking at the comfort, we often look at the weight of the muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 So we've got things like this biothane, and you can see the little different sizes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=134.7s	134.7	 These are custom muzzles from Buma's muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=137.1s	137.1	 You can get them from Buma's or you can get another company.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 Trust Your Dog is another great company that makes custom muzzles for dogs that have real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=144.4s	144.4	 tiny faces or real large dogs when you might not find that type in some of the other brands.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=150.7s	150.7	 But lightweight is really important.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=153.1s	153.1	 Certainly flexibility is also helpful when you're looking for comfort.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=157.9s	157.9	 Something like this is also very breathable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=159.9s	159.9	 It's very lightweight.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=161.2s	161.2	 So very comfortable for most dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=163.6s	163.6	 The Baskerville muzzle, the Baskerville Ultra muzzle is one of the most popular brands of muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=168.3s	168.3	 Also very comfortable, also very lightweight.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=171.0s	171.0	 Has a lot of nice safety aspects as well with the head strap to prevent the dog from pulling it off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=176.6s	176.6	 And similarly with most other muzzles, they're going to come with that extra head strap for safety.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=182.2s	182.2	 So looking for those things that when you start to go for looking at comfort,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 if you get to some of the heavier muzzles, it might take a little longer for the dog to acclimate to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=190.9s	190.9	 But for our safety aspect, which is the second thing I look for,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=194.9s	194.9	 I'm going to consider the dog's bite history.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=197.5s	197.5	 If they have a bite history with injury, typically I'm going to want something safer like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=202.1s	202.1	 because it's much more sturdy and it doesn't compress if the dog tries to bite.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=206.4s	206.4	 Some of the other muzzles like this also prevent biting because they're very sturdy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=211.8s	211.8	 Just be careful of the vinyl style of this Jafco.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=214.4s	214.4	 The clear vinyl style is a little bit more bendable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=217.2s	217.2	 So it presents a slightly more of a bite risk, but generally still very safe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=221.7s	221.7	 When you start getting into more of the comfortable muzzles like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=224.8s	224.8	 again, more comfortable, but more of a chance of a bite happening through one of these muzzles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=230.6s	230.6	 So if I have a high bite risk, a dog that's done a lot of damage or has bitten very frequently,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=235.4s	235.4	 I wouldn't recommend one of these for that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=237.7s	237.7	 But most dogs, most low bite risks are going to be just fine wearing one of these or the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=242.1s	242.1	 Baskerville Ultra muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=243.9s	243.9	 So next thing to look for in your muzzles is the ability to feed food through it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=251.1s	251.1	 You have things like these food pouches that can be great for feeding through the muzzles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=255.7s	255.7	 Most muzzles that you see here, we're going to be able to do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 So even if you get a custom muzzle like the Boomer's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=262.5s	262.5	 you can cut some space out of there to feed food through.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 Now, of course, if you have a dog that is known to bite or rather grab stuff off the ground,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=271.6s	271.6	 so they aren't biting people or other animals, they're just stealing rocks and stuff off the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=275.8s	275.8	 ground and swallowing them, you're going to, of course, want that fully closed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=279.1s	279.1	 So that's a different use for a muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=282.0s	282.0	 And Boomer's would be a great one for that because you can get one that's completely closed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=285.3s	285.3	 so the dog can't actually physically pick any objects off the ground and ingest them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=289.8s	289.8	 But most of the time, I'm going to want something like a food tube or a treat hole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=293.9s	293.9	 where I'm going to be able to feed treats through there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=296.3s	296.3	 Most dogs are able to, once they get used to wearing the muzzle, are able to grab treats out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=300.3s	300.3	 of your hand if it's fit correctly, or you might be able to feed them this way through some of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 muzzles, again, if it's safe to do so and if the muzzle is fit correctly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=309.9s	309.9	 So again, the three things to look for is comfort for the dog. You want them to be very comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=314.6s	314.6	 wearing that muzzle, safety for whatever the dog is trying to bite. That's the most important part
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 to make sure nobody is injured when we're using a muzzle. And of course, there will be the ability
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=325.5s	325.5	 to feed treats and be able to do our training for dogs that are taking food during our training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=330.9s	330.9	 session. So let's talk next about how to measure muzzles. And this is, think of this like you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=337.4s	337.4	 buying a new pair of shoes, but you're doing it online. And that's how muzzle fitting,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=342.0s	342.0	 unfortunately, works in some cases where we're going to have to try on a few different pairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=347.1s	347.1	 to make sure they fit correctly. And that's really important. Just like if you were to buy a new pair
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=351.1s	351.1	 of running shoes, you're going to want to make sure they fit correctly because over time, it can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=354.4s	354.4	 get uncomfortable or even dangerous if you're using the wrong pair of shoes. And the same thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=358.8s	358.8	 can happen with muzzles. So be prepared to do a little bit of sending back and forth or maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=363.1s	363.1	 ordering a few different sizes of the muzzle that you want and sending the other ones you don't use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=367.5s	367.5	 back. And that's going to allow you to make sure you get the right fit. So measurements, you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=374.3s	374.3	 going to want something that's going to allow you to measure, but be careful when you're using any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=377.5s	377.5	 kind of tape measure or anything that might scare your dog, like a sturdy ruler or something.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=382.8s	382.8	 Some dogs might be afraid of that or they might kind of hear that sound and not be okay with that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=388.9s	388.9	 being near them. So you can take just a piece of string or a leash or something that the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=394.0s	394.0	 fine with being around, and you're going to use that to measure the measurements you're looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=397.9s	397.9	 for. So what parts do we measure? Depending on which manufacturer's website you go on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=403.9s	403.9	 there's going to be different charts, different measurements. They're going to give you a general
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=407.5s	407.5	 idea of sizing based on measurements you take. And some of them are going to look for the length,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=413.5s	413.5	 the height, their circumference, and the width of the muzzle. So let's talk about those things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=418.5s	418.5	 First thing you're going to look at is the length, and that's about a half inch to an inch below the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=422.9s	422.9	 dog's eyes. You're going to kind of have this line, and that's where the muzzle is going to be sitting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=427.4s	427.4	 typically. So if you have a, let's say, a Jaffco, it's going to be sitting right below the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=434.2s	434.2	 eyes. So you don't want it, of course, up over the dog's eyes or blocking their vision or sitting too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=438.2s	438.2	 low. You're going to want it kind of just sitting there. This muzzle is, of course, too big for this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=442.1s	442.1	 Jack Russell, but it gives you an idea of where to start that measurement. And you're going to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=447.8s	447.8	 that's going to be the length. You're going to start that measurement from there to about just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=452.5s	452.5	 a little bit in front of the nose, where the nose would come out. So that's going to be your length
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=457.3s	457.3	 measurement. That's very important because if it's too long, we run the risk of it actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=463.9s	463.9	 doing damage to the dog or not fitting well, not being able to feed food through it. So there's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=468.2s	468.2	 lot of issues if it's too long of a muzzle. Next thing you're going to look at is the height,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=473.3s	473.3	 which is you're going with that same line, about a half inch to an inch below the dog's eyes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=478.3s	478.3	 and you're looking at just how tall that is. You start from there, and you're going to measure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=483.9s	483.9	 down to the bottom of their muzzle. So straight line right below that measurement point there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=490.8s	490.8	 and then down to where the bottom of their jaw would be. And you're going to get that measurement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=496.6s	496.6	 there. That is with a closed mouth. So that's the height of the muzzle with a closed mouth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=503.8s	503.8	 Next thing you're going to look at is your circumference. Same thing, same measurement around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=507.9s	507.9	 That's that half inch to one inch mark underneath their eyes. And going right about, you're lining
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=512.8s	512.8	 up with right about where their commissaries would be. So the lips end in a lot of dogs. Some dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=518.1s	518.1	 are going to be longer, but right about there you can see there's a slight angle to that one. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=522.0s	522.0	 taking that circumference measurement. So you take that, and then you would of course measure that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=526.1s	526.1	 distance there. And the last measurement you're going to take is the width. So that's how wide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=531.8s	531.8	 the dog's snout is. And that's going to differ depending on the dog and the breed of dogs. Some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=536.9s	536.9	 dogs are going to have much wider jowls or loose lips hanging down. So you're going to want to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=541.7s	541.7	 account for that because if you don't take the widest measurement, it can be kind of jammed up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=546.2s	546.2	 into some muzzles. You want to make sure that you aren't measuring wide enough. You're going to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=550.7s	550.7	 all of those numbers. You're going to go to the manufacturer website and you're going to add a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=554.3s	554.3	 little bit to each of those numbers. So the length you might add about a half inch to an inch.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=559.4s	559.4	 For the circumference, that's the one you're going to add the most. Some dogs you're going to add
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=563.2s	563.2	 between three, four, five inches to that circumference because you want the pant room. So the panting is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=570.6s	570.6	 very important. If I'm going to get a proper fit for an open mouth pant, we're going to want a wide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=575.7s	575.7	 enough circumference to allow for that. So you can see here this dog has an open mouth pant, tongue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=583.2s	583.2	 hanging out, having a good time. But it's going to allow that circumference. So it might look big
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=589.6s	589.6	 for a dog with their mouth closed when you're looking at a closed mouth fit. But we want that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=595.1s	595.1	 space in there. Now this muzzle is too long for this dog. I just talked about it being too long.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=600.5s	600.5	 So we would want a much shorter muzzle for this particular dog if I was to get a muzzle for this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=606.0s	606.0	 husky. Stuffed animals have shorter snouts than most live dogs. In fact, this is a Doberman muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=614.0s	614.0	 You're going to look for about an inch of space, half inch to an inch of space in between the front
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=617.9s	617.9	 of the muzzle and the dog's nose. We don't want the dog's nose touching or rubbing against that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=622.3s	622.3	 This is the Dean and Tyler Freedom muzzle. Very safe muzzle and it's got the nice comfort padding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=628.5s	628.5	 here for the nose. So good fit for this husky other than the length. So I would want to adjust
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=633.9s	633.9	 for that with the fit. So when you're looking at the measurements, remember that you might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=640.3s	640.3	 have to try a couple different sizes. You might even have to try a couple different brands of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=643.9s	643.9	 muzzles. If you have a dog that is, let's say, a brachycephalic breed, a very short snout or a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=649.8s	649.8	 long snout, you might opt for a custom fit muzzle if the dog's not a high level bite risk or biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=655.9s	655.9	 people very severely or other dogs very severely. You might look at a custom fit from Buma's or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=661.3s	661.3	 Trust Your Dog. So that's the concepts of fitting a muzzle and what to look for in a muzzle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=669.5s	669.5	 I hope you enjoyed this video and happy muzzle training and shopping.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=674.3s	674.3	 Thank you so much for that valuable information. Don't forget to check out Michael Shokoshio's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nhWp8pErQEE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=154&pp=iAQB&t=679.5s	679.5	 website, AggressiveDog.com, as well as his extremely popular podcast, The Bitey End of the Dog. See you later!
