https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this video is on the topic of reducing arousal around toys and food so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=7.2s	7.2	 that you can utilize them in your training without making the dog overexcited and frustrated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=13.4s	13.4	 by the training because they're too excited by what you have as the reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=18.0s	18.0	 Now I have some videos already on these topics and I'll link them in the description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=23.4s	23.4	 but they will follow this tutorial which is a little bit more advanced but the basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 of training this follow this video. This video is on the topic of teaching a marker word
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=35.5s	35.5	 that you can use to tell the dog that you're going to deliver the reinforcement to them rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=41.8s	41.8	 them just being released from whatever they're doing to run to get the reinforcement or that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=47.7s	47.7	 the reinforcement is moving away from them. If you're familiar with my work you might have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=53.0s	53.0	 say that you can make a dog more excited by food and toys by using movement so movement away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=60.2s	60.2	 a dog excites them and if you want to calm a dog you're going to use slower movement and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=67.8s	67.8	 movement is going to move towards the dog in order to get their toy or their treat. So if you teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=74.6s	74.6	 a marker word which means the dog did something right and they've earned a reinforcement and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 marker word predicts a slow calm reinforcement delivery what's going to happen is that marker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 word is going to calm the dog down and it's also going to make the dog calmer about the toy or the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=94.4s	94.4	 food that they're going to be receiving. So basically you can also excite a dog by food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=102.5s	102.5	 and toys if you had the opposite problem that your dog is too calm and not finding the food or toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=111.0s	111.0	 reinforcing enough to learn and I'll link a video in the description below if you're having that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=115.9s	115.9	 opposite problem. To train the calm marker I suggest choosing a time of day that your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=123.0s	123.0	 calm and relaxed and using low value treats or toys at first. First you can begin by saying the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=131.0s	131.0	 calm marker and then slowly delivering the treat or the toy to your dog. Once you've done that a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=137.6s	137.6	 couple of times you can then move on to asking for a behavior your dog already knows that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=144.2s	144.2	 calm behavior like a down or a settle then practice saying your marker good or yep and then slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=152.5s	152.5	 moving to deliver the treat or the toy to your dog. You can play an impulse control game using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=159.9s	159.9	 the calm marker hold two low value toys or low value treats out to the side and ask your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 for attention or simply mark when your dog offers eye contact. Use your calm marker and then slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=174.8s	174.8	 deliver one of the toys or treats to your dog. If your dog is taking the treats hard you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=186.7s	186.7	 slowly put the treat on the ground and if your dog is excited by the toys you can simply give the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=192.8s	192.8	 dog the toy rather than playing tug like I'm doing with epic here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 Here's an example of using the calm marker and calm treat delivery to teach the concept of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=208.6s	208.6	 duration head position during healing or waiting at the handler's side.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 Regardless of if you want to do heel work with your dog this is a great exercise for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 teaching your dog impulse control and working for duration without getting overexcited or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=228.5s	228.5	 frustrated around food. So I have multiple treats in my hands and I'm going to feed her one at a time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=235.4s	235.4	 I'm asking her to touch my leg touch marking it good and then I'm going to slowly move to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=242.2s	242.2	 feed her the treat like that touch good good good good and I actually learned this technique
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=263.4s	263.4	 from a couple trainers Bridget van Gessel for training heel work and my mentor Kyle Rayon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=271.6s	271.6	 good for teaching a calm treat delivery touch good so when the dog is doing that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 with duration you can start to move your hand over here so if they move to look at the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=289.0s	289.0	 you can tell them touch again if they know that cue to touch your leg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=295.6s	295.6	 good and then if you're worried your dog might look at the treat you can begin by movement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 touch touch movement like this and then when it comes back marking good before then moving to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=308.7s	308.7	 feed the treat touch and then when the dog is really good good you mark here and then go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=318.4s	318.4	 feed the dog in position good job touch good touch good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=333.3s	333.3	 so Halo's very excited when I say oh pause pause up for the treat see how he's very excited right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=339.9s	339.9	 now so we're going to work on some calm stuff using that calm calm marker I actually excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=346.0s	346.0	 him a little bit before filming and now he's very excited as you can see for the treats that he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=351.4s	351.4	 really likes so I might just start off by calmly feeding him like this or asking him to lay down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=359.4s	359.4	 and then I'm going to do you see how excited he is he can't even lay down he keeps poking at my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=364.3s	364.3	 hand for the treat so while he's laying down like that I'm going to calmly pet him and put the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=371.2s	371.2	 down on the ground and he's also putting his foot against my leg because he's impatient for the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=377.3s	377.3	 to come like that another thing I can do is sigh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=385.3s	385.3	 and blink my eyes and move slowly so that he's getting calmer and relaxed good and now I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=393.3s	393.3	 start to use that calm marker and move slowly to give him the treat good so if your dog gets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=399.8s	399.8	 overexcited at any point during the training for the food you can oh no especially did you fall or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=406.6s	406.6	 did you just get up to bother us for treats lie down there you go splash gets to do whatever she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=414.0s	414.0	 wants because she's 13 hey baby okay sorry halo that was very distracting for him so um if at any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=422.0s	422.0	 point during your training your dog gets overexcited by the treats you can either take a break and wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=427.5s	427.5	 till they're calmer or you can try doing this where you just work on calm behaviors such as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=433.8s	433.8	 laying down settling on a mat handling good and using a calm marker that you've conditioned like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=442.3s	442.3	 good for calm behaviors and the calm treat delivery towards the dog like that good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=449.6s	449.6	 if your dog is taking treats hard from you I have a video on teaching your dog to take treats softly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=456.1s	456.1	 and one of the games is teaching them how to put teaching your dog what to do when you put the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=461.3s	461.3	 treat on the ground like this which is to not just bite at your hand as your hand goes down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=465.9s	465.9	 so you can check that video out if when you put a treat down slowly that the dog just mugs your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=471.5s	471.5	 hand like he's doing now and as I said I overexcited him before filming so that he would act completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=479.4s	479.4	 untrained hey pupsie good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=484.8s	484.8	 good boy okay he's bashing in the way a little bit good boy good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=495.8s	495.8	 good do you see how he can't look up from the treats he's got his focus here on my hand to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=501.5s	501.5	 see what it might do so I'm gonna wait till he makes eye contact good and did you see how quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=509.0s	509.0	 he looked back for the food that's information that he's very excited by it good good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=525.5s	525.5	 this is the footage of before the training took place it's quite a difference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=530.5s	530.5	 pause up good there's some dogs you might never need to excite over the reinforcement and simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=539.0s	539.0	 work on calmness I always like to begin training new behaviors when the dog is calm so I'll use a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=546.6s	546.6	 calm marker when training behaviors like this and then add speed and enthusiasm but with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=553.0s	553.0	 behavior of doing the paws up on my arm I did it in a very simple way I'm going to do it like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=559.4s	559.4	 in very exciting situations for so long that the behavior has also made him very excited when he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=565.1s	565.1	 doing the behavior so I can always go back and make him calmer by using a slow calm treat delivery
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=571.9s	571.9	 so that the the cue paws up predicts something calm rather than the frisbee being thrown pause up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=582.4s	582.4	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=582.9s	582.9	 good here's an example of using a calm marker to train a precise movement using a toy as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=591.6s	591.6	 reinforcer switch weight cross weight switch good good job ready wait cross weight switch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=609.8s	609.8	 weight cross weight good catch awesome good girl ready switch weight good catch awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=626.6s	626.6	 switch weight cross weight switch weight cross weight switch weight good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=633.0s	633.0	 good catch it what to do for dogs over excited about food this video is for those of you who
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=643.0s	643.0	 have just adopted a new dog or puppy and the dog is over excited or over aroused when you try to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=649.7s	649.7	 use treats to train your dog now if you just ignore your dog's excitement some dogs could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=655.7s	655.7	 habituate to using food and calm down but most often they will stay that excited about food or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=662.4s	662.4	 even become more and more excited the more training you do so it's really important to first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=667.9s	667.9	 focus on your dog's arousal level for the treats that you're using because if you skip this step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=673.8s	673.8	 and you just use treats and your dog's too excited what can happen is that your dog will always be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=679.4s	679.4	 too excited when you train and it can get in the way of learning new behaviors because your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=684.9s	684.9	 just so excited it makes it hard to learn it can also have the effect that when you ask your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=690.4s	690.4	 for specific behaviors that they learned when they were too excited they become too excited as they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=696.2s	696.2	 do them so you might get whining and barking or just over excitement whenever you say the cue like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=702.9s	702.9	 sit or down or spin or something like that so to solve that problem i'm going to talk to you about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=709.8s	709.8	 some of the things that you can do the first thing that you want to do is work on capturing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=714.0s	714.0	 calmness around food i have a full video tutorial on how to do this and i'll link it in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=719.0s	719.0	 description but basically you're going to have low value treats in your treat bag for five days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=725.0s	725.0	 and then once your dog is successful with that you can move on to higher value treats but start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=729.2s	729.2	 with very low value treats so it's easy for your dog and you're just going to wear your treat bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=734.1s	734.1	 around the house and those moments that you notice your dog calm relaxed and not thinking about the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=739.7s	739.7	 food and how to get it you're going to get some food calmly walk over and place the treat between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=745.5s	745.5	 your dog's paws then you're going to wait for the next moment that your dog is calm settled and not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=753.3s	753.3	 thinking about the food an added benefit to this exercise is that it makes it much faster to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=758.5s	758.5	 long duration behaviors like a down stay or teaching your dog to wait for their turn the next thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=764.6s	764.6	 that you want to do is teach your dog to take treats nicely i'll link a tutorial on three games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=770.4s	770.4	 on how to train this important behavior now you also want to keep in mind how you deliver the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=776.2s	776.2	 treat to your dog if you don't if your dog gets overexcited by food you don't want to make your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=781.0s	781.0	 dog more excited by the way you deliver the treat so you want to refrain from moving your hand fast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=787.0s	787.0	 waving the treat around or throwing the treat if you have a dog that's already excited about food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=792.4s	792.4	 because you can make them way too excited by food as you can see i've done with my terrier here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=798.2s	798.2	 and it can interfere with your training so instead of a fast treat delivery with a dog that's very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=803.9s	803.9	 aroused by food you can use a slow treat delivery so i'm going to get the treat and slowly move it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=810.2s	810.2	 towards the dog like that good and you'll see it'll take a little bit longer to help calm him down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=817.2s	817.2	 because i got him quite excited good job tug it takes some time to learn the skill of moving slow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=827.1s	827.1	 because naturally we want to move fast a slow treat delivery can also help for a dog that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=832.9s	832.9	 hands-shy and worried about fast movement and it can help calm that dog down and trust you good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=839.3s	839.3	 job tug and finally if you're going to be using food as a lure where your dog follows a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=845.0s	845.0	 to learn new behaviors i don't suggest jumping in and trying to use food as a lure to train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=850.9s	850.9	 behaviors first i first suggest you teach your dog the concept of following food to learn a behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=858.2s	858.2	 i'll link a video tutorial below in the description but basically one very simple exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=864.5s	864.5	 is instead of putting the food in front of your dog's face and wiggling it around and moving it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=868.8s	868.8	 which can make your dog over aroused instantly and try to bite and lick your hand you can hold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=874.2s	874.2	 the food above the dog and click your dog at first for following the food from a distance with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=880.6s	880.6	 closed mouth good you can put the treat down on the ground if you think your dog might take the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=887.8s	887.8	 treat hard out of your hand good i hope you enjoyed this video if you liked the video don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=894.5s	894.5	 forget to like comment and subscribe to channel KikoPup to show your support splash paws up give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=900.4s	900.4	 me a kiss oh no don't you want to give me a kiss splashing kiss bye calming the toy obsessed dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=911.3s	911.3	 today i want to talk to you about dogs that can be overexcited by toys or are constantly asking you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=917.6s	917.6	 to play with the toy and not getting enough rest during the day if you're home all day now some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=924.2s	924.2	 dogs like my other border collie splash you can reinforce them every time they ask you to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=930.1s	930.1	 with them because they won't ask you very often so with my other border collie splash who's 11 now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=936.4s	936.4	 throughout her whole life if she ever wanted to play with me i'd be like oh boy cool let's play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=940.9s	940.9	 but for other dogs if you always play with them when they ask you to play with them some dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=947.3s	947.3	 can start to want to play with you all the time and get anxious and stressed when you can't play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=953.1s	953.1	 with them and it becomes almost obsessive so i want to show you a very easy game to play with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=959.0s	959.0	 your dog that can be overexcited by toys the point of this exercise is not to suddenly limit how much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=965.1s	965.1	 exercise your dog gets but to make the exercise and the play contingent on calmness which means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=972.5s	972.5	 that the dog will be reinforced with play for being calm rather than being overexcited stressed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=979.0s	979.0	 and bothering you for your attention when you get when the dog gets to play so here we are in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=984.9s	984.9	 living room and my border collie is nice and relaxed this is wish my three-year-old border
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=989.8s	989.8	 collie she just turned three and she is really good at settling so when you work on settle for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=995.9s	995.9	 food it's exactly the same exercise if you've seen my settle for food video um settle for toys is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1002.6s	1002.6	 exactly the same so you're waiting for that moment in your house when your dog is not thinking about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1007.9s	1007.9	 playing and then you're going to tell your dog hey let's play so i'm going to say to wish hey do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1013.8s	1013.8	 you want to play with the frisbee come and then i'm going to get the frisbee out of the drawer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1021.9s	1021.9	 and you can see she's not that excited about it and it's pretty calm are you ready
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1034.8s	1034.8	 another thing you can do besides initiating play when your dog's not thinking about it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1039.0s	1039.0	 when they're in a calm settle is to initiate the play when your dog's not thinking about it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1043.8s	1043.8	 throughout the day while they're doing other activities where they're not too exciting so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1048.2s	1048.2	 for example maybe you let your dog out to the toilet you're letting your dog back in and they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1052.4s	1052.4	 casually walking in then you can ask your dog hey do you want to play frisbee and not to an exciting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1058.1s	1058.1	 voice and then you play with your dog or you suddenly whip the frisbee out of your pocket
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1063.4s	1063.4	 hey is she ready i find what usually happens in a household where a dog is a little overexcited by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1071.4s	1071.4	 toy or obsessive about toys is that the dog is pretty much ignored all the time that the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1077.0s	1077.0	 is perfect and calm and relaxed and what is reinforced is the dog acting over aroused stressed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1083.6s	1083.6	 or obsessively bothering the owner in order for the toy so the toy becomes contingent on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1090.4s	1090.4	 acting overexcited and obsessive about toys so to change that picture you really need to start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1095.9s	1095.9	 paying attention to your dog's behavior throughout the day and picking moments that your dog is calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1101.1s	1101.1	 relaxed and not thinking about toys to initiate playing with a toy with your dog now if you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1107.1s	1107.1	 a really mellow chilled out dog that very rarely asks to play with you it's not that big of a deal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1113.8s	1113.8	 this tutorial is for dogs that can get overexcited and obsessive about toys i hope you enjoyed that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1119.9s	1119.9	 see you next time don't forget to subscribe to channel kick-a-pup you guys want to play with toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1125.2s	1125.2	 splash you want to play with the toy ready get it splash you get it thanks go for it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1131.1s	1131.1	 come around come around you go for the games yeah good job good yeah you get it wish you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1141.1s	1141.1	 yeah good job this is a kick-a-pup members video on building and lowering arousal over food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1149.4s	1149.4	 this month's members video is going to be on the topic of building and lowering arousal over food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1156.1s	1156.1	 now for the past few weeks i've been quite busy i've been preparing presentations for the ap dt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1163.1s	1163.1	 and the pet professional guild for the conferences online conferences and one of the presentations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1170.0s	1170.0	 that i'm doing is on training things we can train shelter dogs to set them up for future learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1177.2s	1177.2	 after adoption with people who are not very skilled at training and one of the topics that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1182.7s	1182.7	 i talk about is working on the dog's excitement or disinterest in food so i think it's a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1191.0s	1191.0	 idea to set a dog up for success if the dog is not very motivated by food to reinforce interest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1198.1s	1198.1	 and condition food to be more interesting to the dog in training sessions and conversely if the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1204.2s	1204.2	 is way too excited by food that you can't even train to work on that to help out the future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1211.0s	1211.0	 adopters so they're not stuck with that really difficult job that's really easier for a professional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1218.5s	1218.5	 trainer to work on than just someone who's never trained dogs at all and isn't really good at reading
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1224.8s	1224.8	 the dog's body language that they're frustrated or overexcited or disinterested so a lot of people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1232.1s	1232.1	 think or believe that food in itself is primary reinforcement or a reinforcer to the dog and that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1241.3s	1241.3	 it's unchanging that the dog if they're disinterested in food that's just how they are or if they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1247.5s	1247.5	 overexcited by food that's how they'll be forever but this is simply not true we can condition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1254.9s	1254.9	 food to be more exciting or less exciting to dogs we can condition punishers to become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1261.7s	1261.7	 reinforcers and we can condition reinforcers to become punishers inadvertently so for example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1268.8s	1268.8	 if you had a dog that liked food inside but you only tried to feed your dog outside when they had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1274.3s	1274.3	 other things in mind say at the dog park when they want to play and you're trying to get your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1279.0s	1279.0	 do stuff and trying to give them treats or perhaps if you had a fearful dog and you were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1286.6s	1286.6	 trying to condition the dog to love other dogs but the criteria was too high so every time they saw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1292.1s	1292.1	 a dog they got a piece of food what could happen in the future with in a specific scenario is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1299.4s	1299.4	 when the dog sees the food they get scared and think that there's another dog coming and maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1304.0s	1304.0	 they don't even want to eat so the food could could start to have a negative emotional create
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1310.9s	1310.9	 a negative emotional response in the dog so the fact that reinforcers are subjective to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1316.1s	1316.1	 environment in the situation is both a blessing and also a curse because it means we can change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1322.1s	1322.1	 how the dog reacts to food now but it also means that we need to look out in the future and read
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1328.6s	1328.6	 the dog's body language as to whether they're interested in the food or not interested in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1333.4s	1333.4	 food or getting too frustrated and excited by the food for a dog that's over excited by food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1339.8s	1339.8	 i suggest using low value food at first to reinforce behavior i have a video on what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1346.0s	1346.0	 treats to use that you can watch but for a lot of dogs low value treats are their own kibble and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1353.0s	1353.0	 for some dogs they like Cheerios human food like Cheerios you could get something that's just oats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1361.4s	1361.4	 and not wheat if you're if you're worried about that but something dry and not very flavorful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1368.7s	1368.7	 and of course you want to make sure that you're not giving too many treats that are outside of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1373.4s	1373.4	 the dog's diet so that they stay healthy but it might get the ball rolling to use something like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1379.6s	1379.6	 that at first so the other thing that's really important is that in the dog's history what has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1387.6s	1387.6	 happened is when they're about to eat food there's the anticipation of them getting to eat the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1393.8s	1393.8	 so for example another example of this is dogs getting excited by guests coming in the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1401.3s	1401.3	 just the presence and the ringing of the doorbell makes the dog way too excited so when the guest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1408.2s	1408.2	 actually comes in they're over excited so the present the preparing of preparing of the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1416.0s	1416.0	 meal or the anticipation that they're going to get the treat maybe they've done the behavior they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1420.8s	1420.8	 get the click and now they're going to get the treat that's made them over excited and there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1426.2s	1426.2	 no way to calm them down before they actually eat the food so working on the settle where the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1432.4s	1432.4	 is being presented when there's no anticipation that they're going to get the food is really going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1438.1s	1438.1	 to help calm the dog down with food so after getting that initial treat the dog might then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1444.5s	1444.5	 start to anticipate food is coming and get over excited again but if you practice that subtle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1451.5s	1451.5	 behavior where there's food in a jar and the dog learns that they're just getting a one-off treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1457.4s	1457.4	 when they relax you can show your dog you have no more food that's really going to help lower the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1462.8s	1462.8	 dog's arousal when eating the treat and it's not going to make the dog as excited so sometimes I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1470.1s	1470.1	 suggest with clients to do this for five days where the only time they're getting the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1476.1s	1476.1	 is when they're not expecting the food and you can do the same with meals you prepare the meal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1481.0s	1481.0	 while somebody else is gone you know walking the dog and then the dog hasn't heard the preparation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1488.2s	1488.2	 of the meal and then when the dog's not thinking they're going to get their dinner maybe you feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1492.4s	1492.4	 them a little bit early like 20 minutes early you go get the food and you say okay get your dinner
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1498.4s	1498.4	 oh that made halo sitting on the couch get excited so i'm just going to give them treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1504.6s	1504.6	 because that was kind of mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1516.6s	1516.6	 poor guy he was really listening another thing you can do is feed the dog when they're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1523.8s	1523.8	 thinking about the food but they don't necessarily have to be laying down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1527.4s	1527.4	 so if you're on a walk and your dog notices something in the environment you can feed the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1532.5s	1532.5	 dog a treat or perhaps they've gone to sniff a bush and then you could feed them a treat so they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1537.8s	1537.8	 not building up that anticipation they're going to get one then i do suggest if that gets your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1544.1s	1544.1	 dog to focus on you and they're staring at you for the treat to have a signal that you're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1549.1s	1549.1	 going to give anymore what i usually do is say all done go sniff and then you can reinforce them for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1556.1s	1556.1	 going sniff if you want but really make sure to show them that you're not going to give them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1561.8s	1561.8	 any more food they don't need to do any behaviors in order to get the food and that can really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1567.6s	1567.6	 really help for loose leash walking as well so another really important concept is the movement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1576.1s	1576.1	 of the food if you have a dog that's very excited by food the movement of the food away from the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1583.6s	1583.6	 is going to build more excitement over the food so with a dog that's excited by food and aroused
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1590.8s	1590.8	 by food you don't really want to begin with the food moving away you want to move the food into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1596.4s	1596.4	 the dog's space not in an intimidating way but the dog isn't thinking they have to do anything to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1603.5s	1603.5	 the food so a slow calm treat delivery where the food comes and drops between the dog's paws like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1610.2s	1610.2	 that also if dogs take treats hard that's a great first way to deliver treats i have a video on take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1617.8s	1617.8	 treats nicely on youtube if you want more ideas about games to play if your dog takes the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1624.2s	1624.2	 hard and i'll link the videos in the description of this video so you can find them more easily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1630.4s	1630.4	 but i did make her excited when i started moving the moving the food away which we'll talk about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1636.4s	1636.4	 in a second um she's drooling now so um a slow calm treat delivery and this is actually one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1644.0s	1644.0	 her favorite treats i'm using tiny little bits of cheese at the moment because uh we're cooking some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1650.8s	1650.8	 chicken but it's still in the oven so this is not the healthiest treat for dogs but uh it's one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1658.1s	1658.1	 wish's favorite treats so a slow calm treat delivery like that another thing you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1664.2s	1664.2	 keep in mind is the time of day that you train the dog if the dog is very excited or it's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1670.2s	1670.2	 before a meal the dog might be more excited by the food so to begin with with a dog that's very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1676.6s	1676.6	 excited by food it's a great idea to feed a big breakfast and then train after the breakfast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1682.2s	1682.2	 or feed dinner and train after the dinner making sure not to do any fast movements after the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1688.9s	1688.9	 has a full stomach and especially not training the trick of rolling over or putting paws up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1694.2s	1694.2	 where they're standing up just to prevent uh bloat where the stomach twists so you never want to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1701.3s	1701.3	 lots of active stuff after a dog's meal but if your dog is excited by food i would suggest only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1707.8s	1707.8	 working on calm behaviors for food first so the dog isn't predicting an exciting exciting movement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1714.6s	1714.6	 and the dog isn't predicting that you do an exciting movement at first uh for the food hey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1720.1s	1720.1	 wishy if the dog is disinterested in food you can train your dog before the meal times where your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1727.0s	1727.0	 dog is anticipating getting their meal and you're going to do quick training sessions while the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1732.6s	1732.6	 is motivated to want to work for the food and when you feed your dog their meal if they don't finish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1738.8s	1738.8	 their food i suggest taking it and putting it up on a counter because what can happen if food is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1744.3s	1744.3	 just left down is that it can be very disinteresting to dogs when they're seeing food all the time and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1750.6s	1750.6	 not feeling like eating it so even if uh perhaps you have a dog that's the correct weight and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1757.1s	1757.1	 they're not overweight they just don't like to finish their dinner all in one sitting let them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1761.6s	1761.6	 have some put it on the counter when they're disinterested and then represent it to them later
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1767.1s	1767.1	 in the evening maybe a couple hours later see if they want it and if they don't put it back um this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1773.2s	1773.2	 will stop uh decrease their disinterest in food than if it's always around where they're like i
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1780.4s	1780.4	 don't really want that to initially get your dog interested in working for food i suggest using a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1786.9s	1786.9	 large variety of treats that you think will be high level reinforcers for your dog and do little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1793.4s	1793.4	 taste tests and see what your dog is the most interested in and for her cheese is very interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1800.6s	1800.6	 to the dog and when setting up training sessions if you have a dog that's really not interested in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1806.1s	1806.1	 food you want to make sure to be using a high level of reinforcement and extremely low criteria
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1812.8s	1812.8	 so for example um if the dog is slightly feeling pressure that they have to do something for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1818.5s	1818.5	 food or maybe feeling a little bit of social pressure that might make them just turn off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1823.3s	1823.3	 completely so you can train behaviors um by just presenting food so perhaps you want your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1830.6s	1830.6	 go in a circle around you you could just put treats down in a row like this and the dog has no pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1838.6s	1838.6	 of feeling like they have to do anything they're just eating the treats and going in the circle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1843.7s	1843.7	 and then you could just decrease how many treats you give to build the behavior like that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1850.1s	1850.1	 also do this with leg weaving so for leg weaving i'm just making a little hansel and gretel trail
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1857.5s	1857.5	 of treats like this and she's figured it out because she already knows this game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1866.1s	1866.1	 and then you just decrease how many treats are being dropped on the ground now uh the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1872.9s	1872.9	 thing that i wanted to talk about is for calming a dog down you're moving the treats slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1879.8s	1879.8	 into the dog's face so you can use calm markers associated with calmness which i call calm markers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1888.3s	1888.3	 so good means that i'm going is going to predict a slow treat delivery like this or when the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1895.4s	1895.4	 settled i might say good or yep and i also use it for calm massage where i'm massaging the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1902.7s	1902.7	 good like that but for exciting the dog i'm going to use other markers and for me the clicker is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1910.6s	1910.6	 very exciting marker for my dogs because i use it for teaching pretty active behaviors as well as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1916.9s	1916.9	 the word yes so i'm going to say the exciting marker and then the treat is going to move away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1923.1s	1923.1	 from the dog if i need to excite the dog more now for some dogs you might never need to excite them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1929.6s	1929.6	 like my terrier and wish i don't often need to make her any more excited when we start training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1936.7s	1936.7	 she'll start getting excited because she loves doing the behaviors but if you were to want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1941.9s	1941.9	 excite the dog you mark and then move to feed the treat so you don't even need to work on any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1948.2s	1948.2	 behavior your dog is just learning to enjoy the sound of the clicker and the food no pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1954.6s	1954.6	 so i'm going to click and then move away from the dog with a treat like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1958.9s	1958.9	 awesome good job you can also pretend that you're really interested in the treats like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1967.9s	1967.9	 oh what's this yeah oh these are these are so good good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1975.8s	1975.8	 and you're marking and reinforcing that interest in the dog wanting a treat you can also practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1982.3s	1982.3	 throwing the treat and then marking for your dog looking for the next treat you can also move away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1989.9s	1989.9	 from your dog if you have more space she hasn't found all the treats yet so when the dog turns
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=1995.6s	1995.6	 around your movement also is exciting the dog to want to come to you so the the pressure is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2003.8s	2003.8	 completely off it's a completely different picture than asking your dog sit sit and then the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2010.5s	2010.5	 goes into their face like that that's not as exciting as you playing a keep away game with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2017.1s	2017.1	 your own movement the keep away with your body and keep away with the treats is really going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2022.6s	2022.6	 encourage the dog to want to work for the food hey guys yeah i suggest when training any behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2030.4s	2030.4	 that you begin with calm movements and calm treat deliveries and then when the dog understands the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2037.4s	2037.4	 behavior and you want more speed and enthusiasm then you can quickly start to incorporate the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2043.8s	2043.8	 fast exciting treat deliveries if your dog needs motivation or you can use toys as the reinforcers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2052.2s	2052.2	 so if you go on to using toys as the reinforcers you want to make sure to drastically reduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2058.9s	2058.9	 criteria both paws thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2065.5s	2065.5	 like comment and subscribe to my channel you can also become a supporting member of channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0fWfSAvan8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=158&pp=iAQB&t=2071.4s	2071.4	 Kikopup by clicking the join button see you later good job
