https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone! This video is on teaching your dog not to counter surf using positive reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=7.6s	7.6	 This video is starring Gummy Bear, the Australian Shepherd, and she's 16 months old.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 Before working on this exercise, I suggest first working on the exercise of Leave It With Your Dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 and I have a video tutorial linked in the description below on how to train that first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=25.8s	25.8	 Basically, you're teaching your dog the cue, leave it, from whatever it is that you want them to leave,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=31.9s	31.9	 but in this exercise we're teaching the dogs that food on a counter is a situational cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=39.4s	39.4	 or default behavior to leave whatever it is on the counter. So the goal is that the table or the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=46.6s	46.6	 food on the counter is the cue, the visual cue, to the dog to leave whatever it is rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 you having to say a verbal cue such as leave it. The first step is marking and reinforcing your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=59.5s	59.5	 for the absence of moving toward food when it's presented. This will set your dog up for success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=65.4s	65.4	 when the food is sitting on the table or on a high counter. So I suggest taking a bag of food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=72.0s	72.0	 and holding it up in the air above your dog and you're going to try to mark before your dog thinks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=77.1s	77.1	 to jump up at whatever you're holding. This will help with dogs on a tall counter where they see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=83.4s	83.4	 or smell food and they want to jump up and put their paws on the counter. So if your dog will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=88.6s	88.6	 jump up if you just hold food above them then most likely they're going to jump up onto the counter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=93.6s	93.6	 if there's some food on the counter. Good job! Hold a bag or container of treats out over your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=102.2s	102.2	 and mark as you hold the bag out over their head at first. Use low value treats that your dog isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=109.0s	109.0	 that interested in at first. Here I'm using carrots and broccoli with gummy bear before moving on to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=116.5s	116.5	 using high value treats to set her up for success and make the beginning of this game easy for her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 First mark the moment that you move the bag of treats and then when your dog is successful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=129.4s	129.4	 and not jumping up you can move the treats around for a longer duration before marking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=135.0s	135.0	 and reinforcing your dog for not jumping up. Oh cheers! Good job! You can then practice this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=143.5s	143.5	 exercise by reaching and grabbing food on your counters or coffee table.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=151.8s	151.8	 If you're struggling with your dog bothering your treat bag you can teach this default leave it from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=157.2s	157.2	 the treat bag. Here I'm working with Ted the Pitbull on a default leave it from the treat bag.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 I'm first starting out by getting his attention and backing away from him and I'm feeding him at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=172.8s	172.8	 a distance that I'd like him to stand when I stop and also that I'd like him to follow me at and I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=179.7s	179.7	 being a little bit proactive by feeding him further away. He's also interested in something. I have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=185.5s	185.5	 bag of treats sitting just under the camera that he's interested in so I'm using the kissy noise to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=190.4s	190.4	 get his attention and I'm marking and reinforcing him for choosing to come back to me after I make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=195.5s	195.5	 the noise. So I'm using a high level of reinforcement for just marking and reinforcing multiple times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 before he's thought to come towards the bait bag and stick his nose into it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=215.7s	215.7	 I shouldn't have gone near the other source of treats over there. It distracted him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=225.6s	225.6	 So he's doing so well that I'm going to start to use the treat bag as a distraction so I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=231.3s	231.3	 to hold it out to the side and mark and reinforce him for standing calmly as I move the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=237.9s	237.9	 around and if the dog were to jump up and touch the treat bag or try to grab at it you could just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=244.6s	244.6	 make your movement slower and further away from the dog at first. So you don't need to use any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=250.6s	250.6	 sort of no reward marker or anything like that. You just need to reassess your training plan and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=256.1s	256.1	 then go in smaller approximations. Now I'm practicing moving into his space and he's ignoring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=266.2s	266.2	 the treat bag because I'm reinforcing the absence of the behavior of going towards the treat bag.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=273.4s	273.4	 Now I'm practicing squatting, feeding him a treat and moving my hand back towards my body like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=279.4s	279.4	 so that I'm marking and reinforcing him for not coming forwards to get the treats out of my hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=285.2s	285.2	 It's a great idea to keep changing the picture so it doesn't become a small fixed picture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=290.1s	290.1	 of the default leave it is just about when you stand in front of the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=294.2s	294.2	 and not when the treat bag is waved around or removed or when you're squatting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=298.4s	298.4	 Here I'm marking as I put a little bucket of treats down on the ground and then pick it up again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=306.6s	306.6	 You can then add eye contact to the behavior of ignoring the treat bag.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 When teaching a dog to ignore food in your hand and look at your eyes it kind of goes against
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=319.7s	319.7	 the concept of luring so you want to make sure that when you use food as a distraction on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=325.0s	325.0	 person or in your hands that you don't make the gestures anything like a luring gesture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=330.6s	330.6	 or it could cause confusion if you're going to be using luring with the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=336.6s	336.6	 Here we're warming up with the leave it exercise that's in the video tutorial that's linked below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=342.8s	342.8	 What I've done is put down a very low value distraction of food, the broccoli in a plastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=349.3s	349.3	 baggie, and I have high value treats and I'm marking and reinforcing gummy bear's choice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=354.6s	354.6	 to turn back to me and then I'm marking and reinforcing gummy bear for not thinking to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 towards the food again. By using low value treats at first and being far enough away from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=366.4s	366.4	 distraction with treats your dog prefers you really will be building your dog's choice to want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 ignore whatever it is on that plate or in that treat bag.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=385.6s	385.6	 If at any point during this training your dog goes towards the distraction to get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=390.2s	390.2	 you can use your leave it cue, your dog's name or attention noise or recall or you can simply keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=396.2s	396.2	 the leash short enough that the dog can't reach the distraction and then you can encourage your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=400.9s	400.9	 dog to come back with you and then make the distraction a little bit easier by lowering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=406.2s	406.2	 the value of the treats on the table or going back to being further away from the distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=413.8s	413.8	 The next step is putting low value food such as carrots, broccoli, uncooked and milk bones or some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=421.9s	421.9	 sort of treats that your dog doesn't really find that interesting or even his kibble on a low table
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=427.5s	427.5	 and you can use containers that are safe so if your dog were to think to go and get the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=433.8s	433.8	 then say for example you have a Tupperware container with holes poked in the lid so they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=438.5s	438.5	 can't just grab whatever it is if you have a dog that would suddenly lunge and try to take whatever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=443.1s	443.1	 it is. If you have the food and plastic baggies be careful if you have a dog that might take and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=449.3s	449.3	 just devour whatever it is I wouldn't use a plastic baggie as I'm doing in the video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=454.7s	454.7	 As you can see from this footage gummy bear looks already trained because the steps are broken up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=460.1s	460.1	 small enough that the dog can be easily successful and not feel stressed or frustrated during the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=465.9s	465.9	 training process. Once your dog is reliably leaving the low value food on the table or on a dish on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=472.5s	472.5	 the floor you can start to increase the value of the food on the table and the floor. You can also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=478.0s	478.0	 interact with the food and on the table and the floor such as picking up a dish and putting it down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=483.2s	483.2	 or taking pieces of food off the plate and putting it back like you would say for example if you had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=488.6s	488.6	 guests over and food was on the coffee table. Now the table has some very flagrant dog treats on it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=495.4s	495.4	 that are very high value to gummy bear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=501.4s	501.4	 There's some hot diggity dogs over there good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=507.2s	507.2	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=507.5s	507.5	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=513.5s	513.5	 awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=516.2s	516.2	 we got a little bit too close to the hot dogs where she couldn't turn around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=527.6s	527.6	 and what she's telling me is that the ham is less reinforcing than these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=532.5s	532.5	 novel hot dogs so I'm going to use them as the reinforcer and you can see that she quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=539.0s	539.0	 turned away now she's glued to me so it's really important to begin this exercise with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=546.4s	546.4	 the right value of reinforcement because you can see now she looks like a expert pro
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=551.9s	551.9	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=559.7s	559.7	 Once you've completed a few successful training sessions with this exercise I suggest having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=565.2s	565.2	 food out in the living room on your table I suggest low value food at first while you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=570.9s	570.9	 there reading a book or on your phone and the food's right in front of you in semi-protected
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=576.5s	576.5	 containers if you think your dog might be faster than you at grabbing the food and you can work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=582.5s	582.5	 the food being out while you're there to monitor it rather than during your dinner time where you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=588.6s	588.6	 going to be concentrating on eating and not training your dog and what you can do is reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=593.5s	593.5	 your dog for settling calmly while the food is there on the table so I have a video on teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=600.5s	600.5	 a calm settle and you can see that in the description below I've linked that video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=605.8s	605.8	 so you could work on a settle with low value treats on a low table or a high table or on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=611.2s	611.2	 kitchen counter and get your dog used to food being out isn't the predictor that they're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=616.7s	616.7	 to get to eat the food and it's going to greatly reduce your dog's frustration when food is around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=623.1s	623.1	 because obviously dogs are opportunists and they would love to snack on whatever it is on the table
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=630.0s	630.0	 so not being allowed to eat that by just denying the dog or using punishment can be very frustrating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=637.3s	637.3	 so by reinforcing their choice to ignore it and their impulse control it's going to greatly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=642.7s	642.7	 improve the quality of their lives when there are all these distractions around that they can't have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=648.2s	648.2	 and by using food it's also fun for the dogs to work on this exercise it's very important that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=655.1s	655.1	 when you're not training you're not leaving food on the table or crumbs and I actually think that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=661.2s	661.2	 this she started bothering the table because we started we had eaten I think it was pizza
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=667.7s	667.7	 and there were just crumbs all over the table and they were there no one was eating them and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=672.7s	672.7	 she started getting interested in sniffing the table again which is something that I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=678.2s	678.2	 particularly like so we need to work on it it's also not fair if no one else gets to do it and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=684.2s	684.2	 she's starting to bother the food on the table now I'm going to practice walking around the table
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=690.2s	690.2	 so that she has to pass the food from different angles wish me wish me good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=705.1s	705.1	 you were thinking of getting that why don't you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=715.0s	715.0	 Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=729.4s	729.4	 back up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=733.0s	733.0	 Back up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=735.8s	735.8	 You side step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=738.2s	738.2	 You go the other way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=739.6s	739.6	 Go the other way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=741.0s	741.0	 Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=742.7s	742.7	 Side step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=744.8s	744.8	 Go the other way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=747.0s	747.0	 Side step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=749.3s	749.3	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=750.6s	750.6	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=755.0s	755.0	 Thank you so much for watching.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=756.6s	756.6	 This video is dedicated to one of my number one Kikopup sponsors, Luna Miles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=761.9s	761.9	 Because of her and other members, I'm able to create these free training videos to educate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=768.0s	768.0	 the public on how to train dogs without the use of physical and psychological intimidation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lLyiQODnR1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=160&pp=iAQB&t=774.1s	774.1	 See you later.
