https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody! In this video I'm going to show you how you can teach your dog to be comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=5.3s	5.3	 wearing one of these cones as well as find the experience of putting it on and taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=10.6s	10.6	 it off, a positive experience that means reinforcement is coming. So as you can see, when she puts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=16.9s	16.9	 her head in the cone and takes it out, she has an expectant look that something good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=21.2s	21.2	 is going to happen like that. Can you put it in? Good! Free!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=26.4s	26.4	 There are different types of cones as well as inflatable devices to prevent your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=31.4s	31.4	 messing with some injury or surgery. So a cone like this, it can prevent the dog from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=38.2s	38.2	 chewing on stitches on the rest of the body, but it can also prevent the dog from kicking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=43.9s	43.9	 or pawing at an injury that's on their face. So if the injury is on the face, you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=49.9s	49.9	 to make sure the cone is long enough that the legs can't get into the cone if the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=54.0s	54.0	 turns their head to kick their face with their back legs, which can happen if the cone is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=58.7s	58.7	 too short, and you want to make sure that the cone is not short enough if the dog has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=65.3s	65.3	 an injury on their body that they can reach it with their mouth. So some dogs need a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=71.9s	71.9	 secure setup because it's an important, really dangerous thing if the dog were to mess with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 the site, or you have a dog that just has an issue with stitches. I know there are some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=83.4s	83.4	 dogs that they have this intense desire to want to rip the stitches out of their body.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=89.1s	89.1	 They find them, you know, that they're really drawn to wanting to do that, where other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=94.7s	94.7	 dogs might leave the stitches alone or an injury and not want to mess with it at all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=100.1s	100.1	 Like Halo, he just got neutered yesterday and he's not bothering the site of the surgery
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=106.8s	106.8	 at all, so I actually, he's under the couch right now relaxing while I have my eyes on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=111.6s	111.6	 him, and then if he were to mess with his stitches, I could put the cone on, and I put the cone on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=117.5s	117.5	 when I'm not able to monitor him and make sure he's not messing with it. So even though he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=124.3s	124.3	 not messing with it at all, I'm still going to use the cone just to make sure nothing bad happens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=129.7s	129.7	 after his surgery. These kind of cones that you usually get from the vet come with a string,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=135.1s	135.1	 and then you put the cone onto your dog's head and tie the string so that it's securely tight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=140.0s	140.0	 that your dog can't just push the cone off with his paws. What I like to do is put my dog's collar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=146.0s	146.0	 through the cone so that it's tight enough that if they tried to push the cone off, that it doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=152.1s	152.1	 go over their head, but it's loose enough that the dog's, that it's comfortable around the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=157.7s	157.7	 neck. Now my personal opinion is I don't like the way these poke into the dog's neck. If there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=164.1s	164.1	 just a string on it, the cone basically rests on your dog's neck with these, and they can be kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=169.8s	169.8	 of sharp. So you want to make sure that you don't scrape your dog's eye as you're putting the cone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=174.3s	174.3	 on. So what you can do, or what I like to do, is put the dog's collar through the cone like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=180.0s	180.0	 and then you can use some bandage to wrap around these so that they don't stick out. And then when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=188.0s	188.0	 the collar is through, all you have to do is put it onto the dog's head and then buckle the collar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=193.0s	193.0	 and then unbuckle the collar, and it's going to make the same noise as the dog's normal collar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=198.1s	198.1	 going on and off. You just want to make sure it's tight enough that they can't push it off. Now if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=202.7s	202.7	 you had a escape artist type dog that's really obsessed with trying to get to his injury, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=208.3s	208.3	 can have your dog in a harness with the cone attached securely to the harness. So the cone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=215.4s	215.4	 is attached to the harness, and you want to make sure that you're monitoring your dog with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=219.5s	219.5	 type of setup because accidents can happen. So you might have that set up on your dog while you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=225.5s	225.5	 around the house, but that can make it helpful for the dog not just pushing the cone over their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 head. Say if you have a sight hound and their head is smaller than their neck. I really like using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=236.5s	236.5	 these soft cones with my dogs, and I use the same process of putting their collar through the little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=242.3s	242.3	 holes here to secure it to my dog's neck. I like this one that has a window and soft fabric so the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=249.8s	249.8	 dog can see through and it's not too dark, and then they can rest nicely with the cone on their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=255.0s	255.0	 head. Can you put your head in there? Good. And can you do head down? So you can see she can rest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=260.9s	260.9	 comfortably. Also just a quick note, if your dog has long ears or they get stuck back there after
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=267.5s	267.5	 you put the cone on, you can pull your dog's ears forward and give them a treat for doing that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=274.0s	274.0	 you start using a collar so that their ears are all nice and comfortable inside of the cone. These
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=280.3s	280.3	 cones are great for managing your dog around the house, but keep in mind if you have a dog intent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=285.6s	285.6	 on getting to whatever it is they're not supposed to touch, they can easily learn to bend the cone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=292.0s	292.0	 in order to get where they want to go or invert the cone like that. So I've seen dogs invert the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=299.6s	299.6	 cone on furniture by mistake and then be able to reach what they want, and I'm sure a dog could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 learn to do it on purpose to get where they want. So keep in mind, you know, it's not a hundred
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=311.6s	311.6	 percent safe to wear one of these, but my own dogs are very good at... these border collies are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=320.0s	320.0	 specifically really good at not messing with injuries, so I like to use the soft cone for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=325.9s	325.9	 bedtime so that they can get comfortable at night, and if you're a light sleeper, it's easy to hear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=331.2s	331.2	 if they're trying to get to their injury. So if you're a heavy sleeper, you might want to use the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=336.2s	336.2	 harder cone. This is a very small one that I got from my chihuahuas that has the hard cone and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=342.7s	342.7	 soft around the neck because when Kiko had an eye ulcer, my little chihuahua, I tried conditioning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=350.4s	350.4	 her to like the hard cone and she was really not liking the weight of the cone resting on her neck,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=357.2s	357.2	 so using this soft cone really improved the quality of life and her night times of sleeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=364.7s	364.7	 in the cone because she wasn't at night wanting to mess with her eye ulcer, this really helped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=371.2s	371.2	 improve the quality of her life, but again what can happen with this cone is they can push it so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=376.8s	376.8	 that it's a little bit shorter and then they can possibly reach their face, so you want to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=382.4s	382.4	 that if you put something on your dog that you know that they can't reach whatever it is if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=388.3s	388.3	 going to be leaving them alone, so when I had to leave my little chihuahua, I left her in the hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=393.5s	393.5	 cone and then had her in this cone for when I was around the house and at night time when I was in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=399.2s	399.2	 the same room as her to hear if she was trying to mess with her eye. Epic has never seen a cone like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=405.0s	405.0	 this and I just want to do a tiny demonstration of what it looks like when you move the object
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=411.8s	411.8	 towards the dog that the dog's never seen before at first, so if I move this into her space you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=417.8s	417.8	 see she backs away, I'm not going to do any more than that because I want to teach her that this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=423.2s	423.2	 is a wonderful thing, so instead of trying to put it on her I'm going to make the object move away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=429.1s	429.1	 from her and you can see that she's immediately following it after backing away from it, so movement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=435.2s	435.2	 is extremely important when conditioning things that you want to use with your dog and you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=441.0s	441.0	 them to have a positive experience with them, so here you go I'm just going to start moving this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=448.0s	448.0	 cone away from her, marking and reinforcing her for following it, good job, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=456.3s	456.3	 Now I can stick my hand through the cone, yeah and feed her like that, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=468.1s	468.1	 If you have a bigger dog you might need to stand up, good, good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=476.5s	476.5	 good, good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=485.6s	485.6	 good, good job, get it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=492.9s	492.9	 good girl, if your dog knows the cue to touch you can also ask for that behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=498.4s	498.4	 touch, good, touch, good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=508.9s	508.9	 touch, good girl, good, so I'm marking as he approaches the cone, good and then feeding him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=517.6s	517.6	 with his little mouth in the cone,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=523.1s	523.1	 good, good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=528.8s	528.8	 good and then I can eventually pull his head through the cone so that he gets the treat for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=534.3s	534.3	 sticking his head through and that's when you can mark, good, good, good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=546.6s	546.6	 good, good, good. Now that he has the cone on I'm just going to keep feeding him treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=556.7s	556.7	 for moving with the cone on his head like that, good job, you can also sprinkle treats down on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=562.6s	562.6	 the ground if the cone is big enough and comfortable enough for the dog to eat treats off the ground,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=570.9s	570.9	 good, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=576.7s	576.7	 Most dogs will want to paw at the cone and try to remove it when they start to move around so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=582.3s	582.3	 want to make sure to use a high rate of reinforcement and if the dog starts to paw at the cone you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=588.3s	588.3	 either increase your rate of reinforcement or take the cone off and give your dog a break.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=595.2s	595.2	 If your dog doesn't particularly like having his ears touched or doesn't like the process of when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=599.9s	599.9	 you pull the cone off over his head and it's a tight fit because you've made it the right size
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=605.9s	605.9	 for actual use you can feed the dog a treat like this and have the cone unhinged so that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=613.3s	613.3	 take the cone off also if there's like an emergency that just happened and the treat falls into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=618.7s	618.7	 cone the dog doesn't panic trying to get out of the cone. Are you ready? So I'm putting the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=625.2s	625.2	 in like that and then I'm letting go so that he's not having his ears smushed every time I practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=632.1s	632.1	 putting the head in like that and then we can work on the ears having the cone rub his ears on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=638.4s	638.4	 the way back out on a different session so it's not too much too quickly so he's going to put his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=644.3s	644.3	 head in like that and then I'm going to hold it this time so he feels a little bit of the pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=649.0s	649.0	 of what it's like to have the cone taken off. Whoops I dropped another treat into his cone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=655.8s	655.8	 he doesn't want to have it taken off. There you go. You can also open the cone up so that it's less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=662.7s	662.7	 intimidating for the dog to reach over the neck of the cone to get the treat. It might be a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=667.8s	667.8	 bit trickier if you have a big large dog and a very floppy big cone but this cone is it's super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=675.5s	675.5	 easy to do this with a little dog. Now I'm going to put the buttons together. I like to do this away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=681.8s	681.8	 from the dog because it makes a loud noise. If you do it near the dog's head you should practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=687.9s	687.9	 making the buckle noise or the clip noise near the dog and then feeding a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=698.1s	698.1	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=701.9s	701.9	 Ready?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=705.9s	705.9	 Put it in. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=711.8s	711.8	 So I personally like to close the buckles and then teach the dog to smush their head through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=716.6s	716.6	 when it's the right size like that. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=723.1s	723.1	 And now I'm going to feed him a treat as I pull the cone off. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=730.3s	730.3	 There's no need to not feed the dog a treat when you pull the cone off and put it on. You can always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=736.9s	736.9	 feed the dog a treat when you pull the cone off and put it on. You can always give your dog a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=742.6s	742.6	 for having the cone put on and always give the dog a treat for having the cone pulled off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=748.1s	748.1	 There might be circumstances where your dog can't have a treat or you just don't have a treat but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=755.2s	755.2	 you can use some other sort of reinforcer. So for example when Halo goes to the bathroom he really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=760.5s	760.5	 wants to go out the door so I take the cone off and the reinforcer is that he gets to then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=766.3s	766.3	 go out the door and go around and mark and pee on things outside. Put it in. So at first when I add
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=774.3s	774.3	 the cue I can have the treat right on the cone like that and lure her head in so that it's 100%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=780.6s	780.6	 successful when I'm adding the cue. Back up. Good. And then when she gets successful with that I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=787.9s	787.9	 hold the treat out further away and add time before I give the next treat. Back up. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=796.1s	796.1	 So I'm going to throw a treat to get her to go further away from me. Go get it. See if she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=800.7s	800.7	 still in the game. Put it in and then hold the treat further away like that. Back up and I keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=807.0s	807.0	 dropping the treats because she's very fast. Ready? Go get it. Put it in. Good. If the dog goes around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=817.3s	817.3	 the cone you can simply lure them back into the cone with a very obvious gesture that you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=823.5s	823.5	 their head to go into the cone. When your dog first starts using the cone you want to make sure that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=828.9s	828.9	 your dog is drinking water so you can show him how to drink the water on his own by putting the cone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=836.1s	836.1	 over the water bowl in order to drink. You might have to change the bowl or the location of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=840.8s	840.8	 water so it's further away from the wall so he can get his head over to drink out of the bowl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=845.5s	845.5	 but you can also make sure to offer the dog water frequently throughout the day to make sure he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=851.0s	851.0	 staying hydrated especially if he has an injury so you can hold the water bowl and that can help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=856.5s	856.5	 the dog learn to drink out of the water bowl with the cone. Hey pups. You can also take the cone off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=863.3s	863.3	 if your dog's not going to injure themselves and monitor them drinking the water and then put the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=867.8s	867.8	 cone back on. Thank you so much for watching. If you'd like to support my work don't forget to like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=873.4s	873.4	 comment and subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUrg25uVavU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=162&pp=iAQB&t=879.1s	879.1	 by clicking the join button. See you later!
