https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone, this video is on the topic of removing the treat lure and turning it into a hand signal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=6.5s	6.5	 when training using treats. So at first you're luring the dog into the position with the treat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=13.0s	13.0	 marking and reinforcing the dog for staying in the position like this if it's a stationary behavior and then feeding the dog a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 So what I like to do is as I get the dog into the position like that at the beginning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=26.6s	26.6	 I mark and reinforce but I also get the dog used to the concept of the lure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 disappearing and I will move it away from the dog before marking and reinforcing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=37.9s	37.9	 So if I lure the dog into the sit, the treat disappears like this and then comes back to the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=43.2s	43.2	 Once the dog is reliably following the lure and you can move your hand away and the dog stays in the position,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=50.3s	50.3	 you can then start to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=52.3s	52.3	 not have the treat in your hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=54.0s	54.0	 So you pretend to get a treat, lure the dog into the position, mark, get a treat and then give it to the dog like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 Then on the next trial go back to using a treat for a couple of times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=68.8s	68.8	 because if you suddenly just don't have any treats in your hand, it can be very confusing to your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=74.1s	74.1	 So practice doing a couple of repetitions with treats in your hand and then no treat where you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 pretending to get a treat. Then after a couple of training sessions or even if your dog is really catching on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 you can show the dog you have no treat in your hand and then do the luring gesture as though you're holding the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=96.5s	96.5	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=99.6s	99.6	 I have a video that goes into more detail about training the position changes and getting rid of the treats as the lures
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=106.7s	106.7	 for those specific behaviors and I'll link that in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=110.4s	110.4	 Some of you might have run into the issue that if you don't have a treat in your hand or you don't have your bait bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=116.1s	116.1	 or treats in your pocket, your dog doesn't listen because they've become savvy that when there are no treats present
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 that it means they're not going to get reinforced for what they're doing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=126.6s	126.6	 So I'm going to show you a quick game you can play in your house using behaviors you've already trained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=132.3s	132.3	 but this isn't going to be a very efficient way to train new behaviors. When you train a new behavior, you can have treats in your hands,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=139.9s	139.9	 wearing your bait bag and train the new behaviors but then once the dog knows the behaviors,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=144.6s	144.6	 you can start to, with the strong behaviors, have a treat container on a counter like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=151.5s	151.5	 put your bait bag away, show your dog you have no treats and then ask for the behaviors that are really strong.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=158.5s	158.5	 And she loves standing on her back feet, which I'm trying to discourage, but she knows leg weaving.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=164.0s	164.0	 So I'm going to get her to weave my legs. Good! And then I'm going to go and get her a treat from over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=169.6s	169.6	 Good job! If this is the first time that you've played a game where the treats are away from you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=175.1s	175.1	 it can be very confusing to the dog. So you might have a couple treats on you and ask for the behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=181.3s	181.3	 with the dog like this and then when the treats run out, ask for another behavior. Good! Show them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=187.6s	187.6	 you have nothing and then go get a treat from the counter. Awesome! Good job! Ready? Go legs, go legs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=197.6s	197.6	 Good! Now I don't have any treats. Go legs, go legs. Good! I'm just going to go get you one now. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=207.5s	207.5	 Go circle, go circle. Good! Good girl! Awesome! Well done! Go legs, go legs. Good! Good girl!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=223.1s	223.1	 And then if I were to train a new behavior, I could get my treats, put them here and then make it more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=228.5s	228.5	 convenient for me to use a higher rate of reinforcement where I'm not doing all this walking around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=234.0s	234.0	 in between the training, which could lead to the dog getting distracted about what they're learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=240.1s	240.1	 as well as doing other things in between the training like jumping up on you or in her case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=245.6s	245.6	 walking on her back legs. If I were to walk over there all the time, she might get bored and want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=251.0s	251.0	 get bored and want to walk on her back legs to see what I'm doing. Once you've had success with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=256.2s	256.2	 teaching your dog to work for you even though you don't have any treats on your body or in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=260.6s	260.6	 bait bag or in your hands, you can then start to use access to the environment as the reinforcer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=267.0s	267.0	 for doing the behaviors. So at first, say for example, your dog really wants to go out the door,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 you can use the treat to ask your dog to sit and say if you're right in front of the door to go out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=278.2s	278.2	 your dog is too excited to be able to work for the treats, you might come back into the living room,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=283.6s	283.6	 ask for the sit with the treat and then go to the door and say okay let's go and invite the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=290.1s	290.1	 through the door. Eventually you can get to the point where you're right next to the door and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=295.4s	295.4	 dog is understanding that to get through the door they first have to sit for the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=300.0s	300.0	 and then be invited okay let's go and then they get to go outside and go play or whatever it is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=305.4s	305.4	 that they find really reinforcing maybe go inside the car. So they don't necessarily need to sit but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=310.9s	310.9	 you can ask for any behavior that your dog is really strong at so something that they find really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=316.2s	316.2	 easy to do. So if your dog has just learned a new behavior keep working on that before trying to ask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=322.6s	322.6	 for it in terms of access to the environment saying saying hi to another dog or saying hi to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=329.0s	329.0	 a person on the street or getting to sniff something so really easy ones are eye contact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=335.0s	335.0	 asking the cue to touch your fingers, asking for a sit or a down if your dogs know those behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=342.0s	342.0	 or you could even do some freestyle behaviors which I like to do with my dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=347.2s	347.2	 Here you can see Lacey is learning attention means access to getting to do exactly what she wanted to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=359.5s	359.5	 So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=370.8s	370.8	 I have a video that goes into more detail about teaching your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=374.4s	374.4	 to work for you for access to the environment rather than just treats which makes it more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=379.8s	379.8	 reliable if your dog's not feeling hungry that they'll still do what you want them to do because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=384.6s	384.6	 they know that it's always in their best interest and I'll link that video in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=390.7s	390.7	 Here's some footage of my border collie Halo at about nine months old where for a month he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=396.2s	396.2	 stopped finding food reinforcing when we were out of the house and as you can see in this footage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=402.4s	402.4	 he still is able to do the behaviors because I've played games like the ones that I've described in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=408.8s	408.8	 this video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=439.3s	439.3	 Okay go play go play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=444.1s	444.1	 Thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=448.3s	448.3	 comment and subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ebe7mIzqFA&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=168&pp=iAQB&t=453.8s	453.8	 by clicking the join button. See you later!
