https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! In this video I'm going to show you how you can teach a dog to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 you his paw. This is not only a cute trick but it's great for grooming and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=9.3s	9.3	 husbandry. So I'm going to show you a couple of ways on how to get your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 want to offer his paw. Now this little puppy I can show you the technique of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=19.8s	19.8	 teaching the behavior using offering where the dog might do stuff with his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=24.2s	24.2	 paws naturally and you can reinforce that. So this little puppy if I wave my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=28.6s	28.6	 hands around like this sometimes she uses her little feet and she's not going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=34.9s	34.9	 to do it oh not going to do it now while I'm filming and then she did.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=39.7s	39.7	 If you have a puppy or an adult dog that would get mouthy if you tried to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=60.6s	60.6	 them to offer the behavior using play I suggest not using play and instead using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=67.6s	67.6	 If you had a huge dog like a German Shepherd and they're very forceful with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=71.7s	71.7	 their paws you can use a larger target such as a plastic frisbee or a large
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=76.6s	76.6	 disc that you can hold out for the dog to hit. You can also use a target that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=82.2s	82.2	 on a stick for the dog to whack with their paw if you were worried. Now this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=87.1s	87.1	 isn't one of the first behaviors that you should train your new puppy or an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 adult dog because what can happen with the first few behaviors that you train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=95.9s	95.9	 is the dog doesn't understand the concept of only doing the behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=99.8s	99.8	 when you ask. Sometimes what can happen is the dog can understand that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=104.4s	104.4	 treats are out that is the cue to do the behaviors. So for the first few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=110.0s	110.0	 behaviors you train your dog I suggest a stationary position, eye contact like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=115.8s	115.8	 sit, a down and look at you or a default leave it from the treats as the first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=121.2s	121.2	 behaviors. That way when you're screwing around getting ready for a training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=125.1s	125.1	 session your dog's gonna offer those behaviors rather than pawing at you or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=129.3s	129.3	 jumping up at you like the puppy's doing to me right now. So I've waited already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=134.5s	134.5	 over a month to train pawing behaviors because I don't want my puppy offering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=139.6s	139.6	 them to me when I have treats or when she wants something from me. Instead I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=145.2s	145.2	 prefer much calmer behaviors like sitting calmly and eye contact and she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=150.4s	150.4	 a little excited right now because I'm using high value treats to get this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=154.4s	154.4	 behavior. If you don't use treats that are of high enough value sometimes the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=158.7s	158.7	 dog won't think to try and scratch the target to get to the treat so you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=163.0s	163.0	 experiment with different types of treats to train this behavior. Hey little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=167.4s	167.4	 one and then I suggest adding a verbal cue and making the hand signal very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 obvious to the dog so that you don't get the pawing the dog offering pawing in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=178.1s	178.1	 between training. Yeah! Here's one technique to initially get the pawing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=184.2s	184.2	 behavior. I'm showing my puppy that I put a treat underneath the lid of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=188.5s	188.5	 container and I'm marking and reinforcing the puppy for pawing at it. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=192.9s	192.9	 the puppy stops pawing at it you can start feeding the dog the treat that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=197.3s	197.3	 underneath the container to get the dog interested in trying to get the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=201.2s	201.2	 out again. For some dogs using a clear container to cover the treat with will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=206.0s	206.0	 make them more likely to want to use their paws to get at the treat. Once the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=215.6s	215.6	 dog is reliably hitting the target with their paw you can hold a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=219.6s	219.6	 underneath the target in your hand and see if your dog might target it with his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=223.8s	223.8	 foot. You can then hold a treat in your closed hand and jiggle it in the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=234.2s	234.2	 way that you were jiggling the target. If the puppy doesn't get it you can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=238.2s	238.2	 back to holding the target in your hand. As your dog succeeds at pawing your hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=246.5s	246.5	 you can slowly start to open your hand more and more and also offer your dog an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=251.6s	251.6	 empty open hand to see if your puppy will paw at it. Some dogs just don't think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=261.3s	261.3	 to use their paws using the previous methods or they just have such wonderful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=266.2s	266.2	 manners around food that they wouldn't think to nudge the food with their nose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=270.2s	270.2	 or paw at it with their feet. For those dogs you can try this method hiding the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=276.5s	276.5	 treat inside a blanket or a towel and marking and reinforcing your puppy for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=280.9s	280.9	 scratching to try and find the treat. If you have a dog that's just not thinking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=287.4s	287.4	 to use their paws I like to use this technique teaching the dog to put two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=292.1s	292.1	 feet on a platform first. So you might need to experiment with different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=296.4s	296.4	 platforms if your dog is worried about putting their feet up on something so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=301.1s	301.1	 you might not want to choose something hollow like this. Maybe you choose a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=304.9s	304.9	 non-slip book at first, a book with a non-slip surface on or a stair in your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=310.6s	310.6	 house to initially get the behavior but I'm gonna just lure her up mark and feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=316.7s	316.7	 and she already knows this behavior. So once you've got the dog putting two feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=320.7s	320.7	 up then you just get the dog to approach the object at an angle and mark just one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=327.0s	327.0	 foot going up and touching the block like that. So I have it at an angle and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=333.1s	333.1	 I'm gonna lure her over it and mark just for one foot. So also the way that I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=340.9s	340.9	 feeding her I can remove one of her feet from the block by feeding her down here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=348.9s	348.9	 Good. Another thing I can do is start to hold it at an angle like that so only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=356.9s	356.9	 one foot goes up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=359.9s	359.9	 Then you can try a smaller target that you can hold first marking the dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=372.0s	372.0	 putting their feet on it and then holding the target at an angle. When the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=376.6s	376.6	 dog is reliably pawing at the target when you hold it in your hand you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=380.7s	380.7	 then try seeing if the puppy will paw your hand without the target in it. To
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=389.4s	389.4	 teach the dog to offer their left paw and their right paw I like to hold the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=393.6s	393.6	 treat out to the left or the right and see if the dog offers the correct paw. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=399.5s	399.5	 don't suggest doing this in the first training session I suggest doing it in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=403.5s	403.5	 the next training session so just concentrate on getting any sort of paw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=407.9s	407.9	 movement so even if your dog isn't going to touch your hand you can mark the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=412.4s	412.4	 lifting up to touch your your hand or the target like that as the initial step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=418.4s	418.4	 If you start to try and ask for too much the dog might start to vary their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=422.3s	422.3	 behavior so once your dog is reliably hitting the target with any paw then I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=427.9s	427.9	 would switch to trying to get the dog to offer the left paw when you offer your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=431.6s	431.6	 left hand and the right paw when you offer the right hand or the target in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=436.7s	436.7	 your right hand. So here I'll show you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=449.3s	449.3	 As you can see she's not reliably offering her right paw when I hold the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=454.6s	454.6	 target out to the right or her left paw when I hold the target out to the left.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=458.9s	458.9	 She's getting there and when she does get there I can add cues to the two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=463.4s	463.4	 different behaviors so I'm going to call the right leg wave and the left leg bye.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=469.4s	469.4	 So I say bye when she lifts up her left leg but I'm not going to add the cue yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=477.9s	477.9	 because she's not reliably doing the behavior. Basically if you keep seeing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=482.6s	482.6	 errors occur like there I'm holding it to the to her right side and she's using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=488.1s	488.1	 her left paw it just means you need to get the behavior more reliable before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=493.3s	493.3	 you start adding a cue. So when you start to see the behavior reliably say your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=498.5s	498.5	 dog can do it five times in a row then you can start adding your cue and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=502.9s	502.9	 if you see errors start to occur go back to just using a hand signal or target
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=507.9s	507.9	 to get the behavior. Good. Once your dog is offering the correct paw for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=513.1s	513.1	 correct hand you can then add your verbal cue. So you're going to say the cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=518.1s	518.1	 just before you move to do the hand signal. So I'm going to say wave and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=523.1s	523.1	 move and mark and reinforce the dog for using the correct paw. Bye. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=529.7s	529.7	 Wave. Awesome. If you want your dog to do more of a high five or teach your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=536.8s	536.8	 What you can do is use shaping in small approximations. So first you can get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=541.9s	541.9	 dog to offer their paw where your hand is underneath the dog like that and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=546.2s	546.2	 move the hand higher and higher like that and then you can also change how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=551.9s	551.9	 your hand is oriented. So first it's like this and then it's like this and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=556.9s	556.9	 you can start marking for your dog doing the high five gesture like that. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=563.4s	563.4	 Then when you're teaching your dog to wave where you're not making where the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=567.0s	567.0	 dog's not making contact with your hand you can hold your hand just out of reach.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=571.5s	571.5	 So you can have it where your dog thinks they're going to hit your hand and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=575.5s	575.5	 move it away and still mark your dog. So you can pull it out to the side like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=579.8s	579.8	 that or pull it higher up. Then again when you're adding criteria you don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=585.7s	585.7	 have to keep making it harder and harder where the dog once you start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=590.4s	590.4	 If you're teaching wave the dog never makes contact with your hand again you can bring your hand back and make it easier for the dog so that the training doesn't always get harder and more confusing and when that happens they tend to vary their behavior more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=603.8s	603.8	 So by making it easier you make the dog's behavior more reliable. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=610.6s	610.6	 Here are a few ideas for tricks using paw targeting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=615.8s	615.8	 Both paws. Ready? Jump through. Jump through. Jump through. Jump through. Good. Both paws. Nice. Wave and bye. Can you do bye? Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=632.8s	632.8	 Wave. Bye. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=634.8s	634.8	 Thank you so much for watching. If you'd like to support my work don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=642.6s	642.6	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button. See you later.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuyjjkSPRfU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=172&pp=iAQB&t=648.6s	648.6	 Are you ready? You want to do one last wave? Good. Good.
