https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone, this video is on proactive training tips for leash walking with your new puppy or an adult dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=7.6s	7.6	 As you can see my puppy is full of beans.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=10.7s	10.7	 She's very active and if I were to just go out and put a leash on her you would see some really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=18.4s	18.4	 not very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=19.9s	19.9	 wonderful footage of her pulling on leash. So the way that I train is using positive reinforcement and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=27.1s	27.1	 the way that you train is you set the dog up for success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=30.6s	30.6	 in small approximations. Now a lot of times people ask me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=34.3s	34.3	 why are you not showing your dog pulling like a maniac biting at the leash biting at your clothes and the answer is is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=41.6s	41.6	 when animals rehearse a behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=44.2s	44.2	 no matter what type of training you do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=47.2s	47.2	 rehearsal of the behavior is going to make it more likely to happen in the future than if the animal never did it at all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 So with leash walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 with a young puppy or a new adult dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=58.3s	58.3	 it's going to be very frustrating to be attached to someone by a leash and if that first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=63.6s	63.6	 experience is out on a walk when they're excited and they're not wanting to take treats and they pull towards something and they want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=68.8s	68.8	 get to it and suddenly they feel that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=71.2s	71.2	 tension on the leash and they're blocked from getting somewhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=74.9s	74.9	 that's going to potentially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=76.8s	76.8	 cause them to pull more or get frustrated turn around and bite the leash. So if we can train the puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=83.8s	83.8	 how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=85.7s	85.7	 reinforce them how to put their harness on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=88.3s	88.3	 what it feels like to feel that tension on the leash and what it means to come back to you as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 well as teach them where to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 inside your house and in your yard if they're not distracted out there first before then attempting to walk them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=103.3s	103.3	 it's going to set your training up for success.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=106.2s	106.2	 So I'm going to show you footage of what my puppy was like the first day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=110.0s	110.0	 I got her and how excitable she can be bounding around in an open space and then the first walk that we had together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=117.9s	117.9	 on leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=119.2s	119.2	 you can see she's really calm and confident and understands the concept of walking next to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=125.1s	125.1	 Now if I had just put her on the leash you can imagine that she would have just immediately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=129.6s	129.6	 hit the end of the leash and wondered what was going on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=133.6s	133.6	 Now I'll show you what we worked on to get here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=136.2s	136.2	 The first thing I did was mark and reinforce her for standing at my side and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=141.5s	141.5	 also for walking at my side like this. So I take a step forward mark and then reinforce.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=150.9s	150.9	 Because I wanted to walk her with my other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=153.2s	153.2	 I worked on this exercise if I had just put her on a leash with my other dogs on a walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=158.6s	158.6	 she most likely would have pulled towards them tried to jump on them and play with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=164.1s	164.1	 tried to jump on them and play with them while we're walking by breaking up the steps to be small and easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=169.6s	169.6	 where she's first ignoring the other dogs while they're laying still and then moving calmly together off leash at my home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=176.4s	176.4	 you can see it set her up for success to completely ignore my dogs on a walk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=182.6s	182.6	 I also played leash and harness games teaching her to be comfortable having her harness put on and taken off without biting at it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=191.6s	191.6	 teaching her to ignore the leash when it moves around her and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=195.2s	195.2	 teaching her that the pressure on the leash simply means to come back to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=199.5s	199.5	 I put a link to the video tutorial on how to train these in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=206.2s	206.2	 If you have a dog or puppy who is already off to a bad start pulling on their leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=211.7s	211.7	 biting at their leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=212.9s	212.9	 the wonderful thing is is you can go back and work on those behaviors in a place that your puppy or dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=220.4s	220.4	 comfortable so inside your living room and that's where I worked on epic behaviors right here in this living room where she was comfortable and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=228.5s	228.5	 found the treats highly reinforcing. The problem with trying to train when out and about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=233.9s	233.9	 using food is that the dog's motivation is to want to explore
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=238.7s	238.7	 usually unless they're worried and then if they're worried then they're not feeling hungry either so the best time to build
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=247.1s	247.1	 positive associations and train new behaviors is in a non-distracting environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=252.6s	252.6	 even if it's a behavior that's something that you're going to be doing outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=256.9s	256.9	 So if your dog is struggling or your dog has a regression and starts pulling on leash or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=264.1s	264.1	 starts biting at the leash you can work on all those behaviors in brush-up sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=268.6s	268.6	 inside your house in your yard and out front where the dog is interested in what you have as reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=276.1s	276.1	 Thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=279.3s	279.3	 don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZbeFrr9hyg&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=173&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button. See you later!
