https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! In this video I'm going to show you how I'm going to get my new puppy comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 wearing her harness as well as when the leash is attached to the harness. I'm also going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=10.9s	10.9	 to include some video tutorials at the end on how to go through all the different steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 for the different behaviors that I'm going to show you. So one, the first initial behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 is teaching the dog to have the harness put on. Now a long time ago when I made some YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 videos it was over 10 years ago on how to put the harness on I was convinced by the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=32.8s	32.8	 training that I'd seen online and read in books that first the stimulus has to happen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=38.4s	38.4	 and then the reinforcement follows. The problem with that is that if you go to try and put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=44.2s	44.2	 a harness on a puppy most likely they're going to back away or bite it. So to begin the initial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=50.8s	50.8	 training you're going to be giving the stimulus and the treat at the same time. Now that's kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=57.7s	57.7	 of like clicking and feeding at the same time so a lot of trainers will think that's a big no-no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=62.8s	62.8	 but what it's doing is that I'm putting the harness on and off of the puppy without the puppy backing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=69.0s	69.0	 away. So you want to use an extremely high value treat and if you have a very sensitive puppy you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=75.3s	75.3	 might just spend a couple of training sessions just feeding the puppy out of the harness like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=80.5s	80.5	 this but as you can see as I continue to drip feed treats to the puppy I take the harness on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=86.6s	86.6	 and off so the puppy is getting conditioned to this thing going on and off and they're not doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=92.2s	92.2	 other behaviors like biting at it or backing away. So once you've done that a couple of times you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=98.8s	98.8	 then start to see if you can put the harness onto the puppy's head just before they've gotten to eat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 the treat and as you can see she kind of backed away so she might not be ready for that step yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=109.3s	109.3	 and for the next few times that I train her I'm simply just going to every time I put the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=115.2s	115.2	 on feed her as it goes on and feed her as it goes off like that. Good job! Another thing you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=123.2s	123.2	 do is feed her continuously as you clip the harness together. Now because I only have two hands
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=129.8s	129.8	 I'm going to put the treat down like that and then clip it on her and tell her how good she is. Yeah!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=135.8s	135.8	 Oh boy! Yay! Good job! Good job! Yeah! That's great! Now sometimes as soon as the harness is on the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=147.3s	147.3	 they turn around and they want to bite at it or they're very interested in it so what you can do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=152.1s	152.1	 is put the harness on and then do some other sorts of training say for example you're teaching sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=158.1s	158.1	 or something like that you can then start training your puppy so they're getting used to being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=162.3s	162.3	 focused on something else and highly reinforced while they're wearing the harness. Don't just put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=168.1s	168.1	 the harness on and let them wander around the house because perhaps the dog will habituate to it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=174.3s	174.3	 but some dogs will turn around and think it's a chew toy and chew on it or be hyper focused on it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=181.2s	181.2	 For example if you were wearing uncomfortable clothing if you're just sitting in your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 you're going to be hyper focused on how uncomfortable you feel but if you went to a party
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=191.2s	191.2	 you wouldn't be thinking about that feeling so what you can do is also put the harness on just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=197.1s	197.1	 before a walk. Hey little one! The other thing you want to do is get the puppy used to the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=203.2s	203.2	 moving around. Now most puppies will go for a leash and bite at it. If you have a puppy that doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=209.1s	209.1	 do this and they completely ignore the leash to begin with then you don't need to do this step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=214.0s	214.0	 but I would do just a couple of repetitions before you even put the leash on the puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=218.0s	218.0	 So what I'm doing is moving the leash around good and marking and reinforcing good the puppy for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=224.8s	224.8	 ignoring this stimulus in the environment because what's going to happen when they're on a leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=230.4s	230.4	 is it's going to jiggle near their face. I personally like to clip the leash to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 harness at the back of the dog rather than the front because the leash will dangle at the back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=242.0s	242.0	 rather than the front or specifically on the collar. I don't suggest using collars to attach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=247.6s	247.6	 a leash to because of the delicate neck of young puppies as well as adult dogs but there are a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=254.1s	254.1	 of harnesses that clip at the front and you can use them but for the first few walks until the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=260.6s	260.6	 puppy ignores the leash I would clip the leash at the back of the puppy. Good job! So I'll link the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=269.9s	269.9	 whole tutorial on how to teach the dog to ignore leashes and to ignore dangly clothes. Say for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=278.0s	278.0	 example when you're going on a walk your puppy might want to bite at your pants or if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=283.1s	283.1	 wearing a dress or your shoelaces so it's important to work on those first in little training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=290.1s	290.1	 so that you set your puppy up for success to being a perfectly well-behaved puppy. The problem with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=295.7s	295.7	 just ignoring it and letting the puppy do these things is they can quickly become a habit and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=301.7s	301.7	 just in one trial learning the puppy can be like wow shoelaces are the best or oh my goodness that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=308.2s	308.2	 is a tug toy that I'm attached to. I find it extremely important to teach puppies what's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=314.2s	314.2	 going to happen to them when they do hit the end of the leash before they're out on a walk so I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=320.3s	320.3	 going to show you me training my little puppy the leash pressure game but then I'm going to link a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=325.7s	325.7	 full tutorial after this video at the end of this video so you can follow that tutorial and what to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=331.5s	331.5	 do if things go wrong and how to add criteria. Hey little one! My little puppy and I are going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 working on the leash pressure game however she's so small I couldn't find a harness big enough for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=344.1s	344.1	 her or a leash that didn't have such an enormous buckle because at the moment she's still nine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=349.4s	349.4	 weeks and she's only two and a half pounds so I have her in a makeshift harness and also I have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=356.5s	356.5	 a lanyard as a leash for the moment so we're going to work on the leash pressure game and at first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=365.2s	365.2	 I'm going to feed her a treat as I touch her harness like that because what I want her to learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=372.0s	372.0	 is that when you feel pressure on the harness it isn't something terrible that's happening to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=377.6s	377.6	 it's just predicting that food is coming so at first it's not predicting food is coming I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=383.5s	383.5	 feeding at the same time as I touch her on the harness and in the area where the leash will be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=389.3s	389.3	 attached like that so that she doesn't start to have an aversion to that feeling because most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=395.3s	395.3	 likely if you haven't done this with a puppy and then you go out and they run and they hit the end
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=399.1s	399.1	 of the leash it can be very frustrating or irritating that they can't get where they want to go or they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=405.1s	405.1	 don't like the way it feels so instead of seeing what might happen you're feeding as it happens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=411.0s	411.0	 for the very first time and that's proactive behavior management where you're not waiting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=416.7s	416.7	 see if something bad happens you're just training with in mind that everything's going to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=422.4s	422.4	 positive experience and that the puppy is going to be confident every step of the way so she's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=427.8s	427.8	 really good with that she's really good with handling so I expected that so you can practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=433.7s	433.7	 putting on a little bit of pressure like this from with the puppy in front of you pulling towards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=439.0s	439.0	 you like that and then pulling back so that the puppy's getting used to the way that feels
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=444.6s	444.6	 so after the puppy is comfortable with you doing these things as you feed the treat you're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=449.4s	449.4	 to delay the treat so you're going to do the pressure good and then feed a treat you can use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=456.4s	456.4	 a clicker for this exercise but as you can see if you're feeding with one hand and holding the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=462.0s	462.0	 leash in the other it's awfully close to the dog so unless you have a helper clicking it's better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=468.3s	468.3	 to just use a marker word so my marker word is good and you can see good that she's not having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=477.0s	477.0	 any issue a lot of puppies when they're behind you and they feel pressure like this as you walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=482.7s	482.7	 forward or they sit and perhaps you're trying to move them to come with you they're going to lean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=488.0s	488.0	 the other way most puppies will and some will actually lay down and look really stressed out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=494.0s	494.0	 by the fact that they're being pulled by their chest or their back so before I can just imagine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=500.8s	500.8	 that this puppy's not going to like it without any training so what I'm going to do is put that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=505.4s	505.4	 pressure and then lure the puppy forward so she's getting used to the concept that if she felt the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=511.8s	511.8	 leash get tight it just means to move forward to loosen the leash no big deal the next game that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=519.0s	519.0	 we're going to play is the leash pressure game with a distraction down on the ground so this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=524.0s	524.0	 going to be very hard for her because so far in her life when I put a treat down or there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=528.1s	528.1	 something on the ground she's just been able to run over and and investigate it so now this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=533.6s	533.6	 the first time she's been on a leash where she's prevented from getting where she wants to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=539.1s	539.1	 which can be very frustrating as you can imagine for dogs and people if you put a little kid on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=544.4s	544.4	 leash and they're used to running around playing with things they're they're going to get frustrated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=549.2s	549.2	 and stressed so the point of this game is to reduce the animal stress when these things happen to them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=555.6s	555.6	 for the first time and teach them how to be confident and comfortable and practice impulse
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=561.2s	561.2	 control when we have to obey leash laws okay here we go so I'm going to put the treat down over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=568.8s	568.8	 and I'm going to use my attention noise to get her back with me now if she didn't turn to come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=574.3s	574.3	 back with me I can lure her back so that the leash is loose so basically when you play this game the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=582.3s	582.3	 dog should start to ignore all the distractions that it can't reach so the leash is all nice and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=588.4s	588.4	 loose I'm going to move the distraction a little bit so it makes her pull again use my kissy noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=594.4s	594.4	 and my treat lure to get her back if she doesn't think to turn back and I can mark and feed her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=600.7s	600.7	 for continuing to ignore whatever that is on the ground good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=607.9s	607.9	 good good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=615.9s	615.9	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=621.9s	621.9	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=624.4s	624.4	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=634.7s	634.7	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=639.2s	639.2	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=644.4s	644.4	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=646.8s	646.8	 the leash pressure game hi everybody this video is on the topic of teaching your puppy what to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=653.7s	653.7	 when he feels pressure on leash either when he's run out and hit the end of the leash or when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=660.0s	660.0	 you've had to add pressure say for example your puppy runs into the road and you need to move your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=665.4s	665.4	 puppy out of the road using leash pressure now of course you can pick your puppy up in emergencies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=672.4s	672.4	 but if you have a puppy that's going to turn into a larger adult dog at some point in his life you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=678.5s	678.5	 going to need to have to move your puppy with the leash now without any prior training most puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=685.3s	685.3	 and dogs when you pull on their leash they one find it aversive and two usually lean the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=692.6s	692.6	 way the same with human beings if you had a harness tied around your chest with a leash coming out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=698.8s	698.8	 it and someone pulled on it you naturally would counterbalance by leaning backwards rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=705.6s	705.6	 just following whoever pulls you so basically in this exercise we're teaching puppies that when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=712.2s	712.2	 they feel the pressure on the leash it's simply a cue saying come with me we're moving in a different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=719.0s	719.0	 direction and by creating a positive association with the feeling of pressure on the leash it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=725.0s	725.0	 simply becomes a cue for the dog to want to move with you now if you work on this exercise with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=731.1s	731.1	 a young puppy right from the beginning before the puppy starts pulling a lot on the leash when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=736.4s	736.4	 out and about it actually can teach your puppy to walk on a loose leash this is because if you work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=742.7s	742.7	 on the exercise enough your dog is going to have a conditioned response where they feel the pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=747.9s	747.9	 on the leash and it will cue them to come back to you here are some exercises you should work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=753.5s	753.5	 first before playing the leash pressure game with your puppy this is because you want to reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=758.9s	758.9	 your puppy for moving towards you moving with you and moving with you when you make direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=765.0s	765.0	 changes and once you've reinforced all of these behaviors it will make it way easier for the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=770.5s	770.5	 to want to choose to move with you when you add the leash pressure in my opinion the four exercises
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=777.6s	777.6	 that you want to work on first are the attention game the recall reinforcing your puppy for standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=784.3s	784.3	 next to you and walking next to you and reinforcing your puppy for direction changes while walking at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=790.8s	790.8	 your side check out the written description below for links to video tutorials on how to train these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=799.6s	799.6	 this is footage of one of our first outings to the park after letting my puppy explore and sniff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=805.4s	805.4	 the park i spent one to two minutes playing the attention game reinforcing the position at my side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=812.5s	812.5	 and direction changes the leash pressure game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=821.1s	821.1	 step one add light pressure on the leash as you lower your puppy forward and then feed a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=829.2s	829.2	 the point of this step is to accustom the puppy to the sensation of the leash pressure so it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=834.6s	834.6	 not a sudden surprise i suggest attaching the leash to your dog's harness when you play games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=841.0s	841.0	 like this as well as walk your dog if you're going to be walking your dog with the leash attached to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=847.6s	847.6	 the front of your dog's harness you need to work on this exercise with the leash attached to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=852.1s	852.1	 front as well as the back keep an eye on your puppy's tail and make sure it's in a natural
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=857.1s	857.1	 position and the puppy is not tucking their tail if the puppy starts to tuck the tail you can work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=862.7s	862.7	 on games like the attention game the recall as well as handling exercises rather than working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=869.3s	869.3	 on the leash pressure game yet step two put a distraction down on the ground that makes the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=875.6s	875.6	 puppy pull on leash use your attention noise or a treat lure to get your puppy to turn around and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=882.2s	882.2	 come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=899.3s	899.3	 what to do if your puppy doesn't turn around one practice from further away from the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=905.2s	905.2	 you can have a helper put down the distraction to make this easier to use a lower value treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=912.1s	912.1	 as the distraction and a higher value treat as the reinforcer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=919.0s	919.0	 step three put a distraction down on the ground that makes the puppy pull on leash when the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=924.9s	924.9	 is on a tight leash move in the opposite direction of the puppy without jerking him mark and reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=931.7s	931.7	 when you see your puppy turn in your direction if the puppy doesn't turn toward you within two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=937.6s	937.6	 seconds use your attention noise or treat lure to get your puppy to turn around and come back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=944.8s	944.8	 oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=962.6s	962.6	 mark the moment the puppy turns towards you and feed the puppy the treat as close to your body as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=968.8s	968.8	 you can to train the puppy to come all the way to you. Mark and reinforce multiple times for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=976.8s	976.8	 puppy being at your side or being in front of you before you repeat the exercise. If your puppy sits
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=984.9s	984.9	 or lays down simply revert back to using the treat lure. So she went out she felt the leash pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=993.0s	993.0	 and that made her want to come back and not be on a tight leash. Basically you're teaching the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=998.2s	998.2	 when they feel the tight leash they should come near you to loosen the leash. Now if you keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1003.8s	1003.8	 proofing this game your dog is going to generalize it so you can use different types of food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1009.6s	1009.6	 different types of toys, different types of people and dogs and places to sniff like a fire hydrant.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1018.1s	1018.1	 You're going to teach your dog when they see things they want the only way to get there is on a loose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1023.4s	1023.4	 leash. So I'm going to remove the distraction over here and do it again again so pressure on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1034.2s	1034.2	 leash click and feed. What you're not doing is jerking your dog you're holding the leash against
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1039.7s	1039.7	 your body to move your dog. Good job and be careful that you don't bag up and trip on something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1046.0s	1046.0	 because that happens to me a lot especially in public. Step four practice with different distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1052.8s	1052.8	 in different situations. I suggest playing this game for one to two minutes 10 to 12 times in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1060.8s	1060.8	 first few weeks that you own your new puppy or dog. This is Martina's Bordicalli Lumos at six months
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1068.9s	1068.9	 and you can see he has a positive emotional response when he feels the pressure on the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1074.1s	1074.1	 and he knows what to do when he feels the pressure. If you notice your dog starts to pull again it's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1081.6s	1081.6	 great idea to go back and do brush up training sessions. Here's an example of working on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1091.0s	1091.0	 leash pressure game with a high level distraction. If something is too much for your dog you'll notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1097.0s	1097.0	 that they won't be able to turn away from the distraction so if this happens you need to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1102.0s	1102.0	 the distraction less exciting or move further away from the distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1112.5s	1112.5	 If you're doing this exercise correctly you'll find that your puppy will stop pulling altogether.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1117.7s	1117.7	 This is a good thing if he keeps trying to go for the distraction it means the distraction is too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1123.5s	1123.5	 difficult too close or you need to spend more time marking and reinforcing him for staying with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1131.2s	1131.2	 after he comes back. In real life situations if your puppy starts pulling on leash you can simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1138.2s	1138.2	 back up until he is on a loose leash then wait a bit until you have made a connection with him again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1143.6s	1143.6	 before walking forward. Here's a game to teach your dog to put his head in the harness.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1150.5s	1150.5	 Hey everybody in this video I'm going to show you a fun game you can play with your puppy or adult
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1155.0s	1155.0	 dog if they've started to have an aversion to having their harness put over their head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1160.4s	1160.4	 and it touches their ears for example. So my puppy started to show these signs that when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1166.1s	1166.1	 brought the harness towards him that he seemed to back away and not want to have it on his head.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1170.0s	1170.0	 So instead of first working with the harness I worked on this fun game where he put his head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1175.2s	1175.2	 into an object that would then rub against his face in the same way that a harness would.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1180.4s	1180.4	 So instead of putting the harness onto him I had him put his nose into the object. So I have this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1187.6s	1187.6	 cute little thing that I got at IKEA in the children's department it's for toys for playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1194.5s	1194.5	 toys for playing with children but you could use a cardboard box or whatever just not a plastic bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1202.5s	1202.5	 obviously you don't want to have your puppy putting their head in a plastic bag. So also you don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1207.5s	1207.5	 want to leave out whatever it is that you've been working on because you don't want your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1211.6s	1211.6	 putting their head into an object while you're not there. Okay so the first step is simply putting a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1217.9s	1217.9	 treat into the object and then letting the puppy eat the treat and you might want to hold on to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1223.5s	1223.5	 the object so the puppy doesn't get it stuck on their head or freak out when it starts to move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1228.1s	1228.1	 around and you can see he's a little bit nervous about that this object is actually pretty cool
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1233.1s	1233.1	 because you can change the height of it so I'm putting treats in there like that and he's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1239.9s	1239.9	 eating them out of there and gaining his confidence. I can also throw a treat away and see how fast he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1245.3s	1245.3	 comes back to the object to go and sniff in it. Good job I'm going to make it a little bit higher
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1253.5s	1253.5	 and he's eating the treats in there and he seems quite confident so now I'm not going to hold on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1259.4s	1259.4	 to it anymore and I'm going to put a treat into it and tell him to go get it and then he can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1265.3s	1265.3	 find the treat inside that object. Oops I dropped a treat there we go. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1275.1s	1275.1	 Now I'm going to put a treat in there say go get it and then he's going to put his face in there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1281.6s	1281.6	 and I can click and throw more treats into that object. Good boy!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1291.4s	1291.4	 Now I'm going to pretend to throw a treat in like that and then when he goes to put his head in I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1296.4s	1296.4	 going to click and then feed him inside of the object and go back a step to him just getting a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1304.0s	1304.0	 treat in there to make it easier for him. Go get it! Awesome now there's no treat. Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1318.0s	1318.0	 Awesome!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1322.8s	1322.8	 Good boy! You can then add a verbal cue. I like to use the cue put it in. Ready put it in. Good boy!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1329.8s	1329.8	 Good boy! Put it in. Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1338.6s	1338.6	 Put it in. Awesome! Put it in. Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1347.4s	1347.4	 Good! Put it in. Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1359.8s	1359.8	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1366.0s	1366.0	 Good boy!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1370.2s	1370.2	 Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1376.0s	1376.0	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1379.6s	1379.6	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1385.3s	1385.3	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1385.9s	1385.9	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1388.9s	1388.9	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1392.9s	1392.9	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1395.4s	1395.4	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1403.2s	1403.2	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1409.6s	1409.6	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1410.1s	1410.1	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1414.3s	1414.3	 Stop biting clothes, shoes and the leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1419.9s	1419.9	 Hey everybody! Today I'm going to be talking about how to teach your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1423.4s	1423.4	 not to mouth or bite at your clothing, accessories or your hair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1427.9s	1427.9	 Good puppy. What I've already worked on with this pup, I've only had him a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1432.8s	1432.8	 days, is working on a calm settle for food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1436.1s	1436.1	 which he's doing right now so I can talk to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1438.7s	1438.7	 Now naturally when I train dogs I never want to let them rehearse the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1443.4s	1443.4	 undesirable behavior. So in my videos you'll never see the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1447.4s	1447.4	 dogs doing the things that they're not supposed to do. I only show you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1451.4s	1451.4	 the small approximations of how to train the dog what you do want them to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1455.5s	1455.5	 But in this case because I get a lot of requests
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1458.9s	1458.9	 of people saying, hey how come you're never using untrained dogs?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1462.6s	1462.6	 It's because when you train with positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1465.6s	1465.6	 it always looks like the dog is already trained because you're breaking the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1469.1s	1469.1	 steps up small enough that the dog can succeed every step of the way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1473.4s	1473.4	 So this puppy has never had any training with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1476.4s	1476.4	 mouthing and biting and I will show you that my puppy does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1480.7s	1480.7	 mouth and bite at clothing when it moves around, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1483.8s	1483.8	 it's not very good training to do this. On this rare occasion I will show the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1488.3s	1488.3	 dog rehearsing the undesirable behavior. This is because the behavior of tugging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1492.7s	1492.7	 is one I do want for when playing with tug toys in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1495.4s	1495.4	 future. Also showing this specific undesirable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1498.5s	1498.5	 behavior is not stressful for this dog. Seeing what the dog does in a situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1503.6s	1503.6	 before training actually makes the dog more likely to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1507.2s	1507.2	 those behaviors in the future. Instead a smarter training plan is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1511.7s	1511.7	 training in small easily achievable steps where the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1515.0s	1515.0	 doesn't even have a thought to do the undesirable behavior again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1519.5s	1519.5	 As you can see this is a normal puppy. Puppies naturally want to grab at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1523.8s	1523.8	 anything that moves fast or is dangling like a dress or your hair or some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1529.0s	1529.0	 jewelry or this dishcloth or a sweater sleeve as you're putting it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1533.8s	1533.8	 on. So this is a normal puppy but you'll see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1537.3s	1537.3	 during the training the puppy is not going to be doing this type of behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1541.6s	1541.6	 The point of this exercise is to teach the puppy that when things are dangling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1545.4s	1545.4	 around it means to ignore them and you can still play tug with your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1550.6s	1550.6	 dog but it's really important to put that on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1553.3s	1553.3	 verbal cue like get it and always say get it before you offer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1557.8s	1557.8	 your dog a toy to tug on so they don't get the wrong idea that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1561.7s	1561.7	 anything that's dangling in their face is fair game to be tugged on. In this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1565.7s	1565.7	 exercise you can either use a clicker or a verbal marker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1568.9s	1568.9	 So you can either click and then feed a treat or I have a nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1572.9s	1572.9	 calm marker. Good! That means I'm going to slowly deliver the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1577.3s	1577.3	 to the puppy like that. The game is pretty simple. You start off with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1581.0s	1581.0	 distractions that are very easy for the puppy to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1583.9s	1583.9	 ignore. So with this sweater for example if the puppy's over here settling or you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1589.8s	1589.8	 could have your puppy on a leash and you could have a helper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1592.7s	1592.7	 the helper is just going to show the sweater and move it slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1596.7s	1596.7	 and as you move it you mark and then feed a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1600.8s	1600.8	 So the puppy is associating that when the sweater moves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1604.3s	1604.3	 and they stay still they get a click and a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1607.6s	1607.6	 and basically you're training the puppy to do nothing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1610.5s	1610.5	 when they see this happen. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1615.8s	1615.8	 When your puppy is having success you can start to make things more exciting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1619.4s	1619.4	 So I'm going to move the sweater past the puppy like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1623.4s	1623.4	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1625.8s	1625.8	 Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1629.8s	1629.8	 I'm going to dangle my sleeve. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1637.8s	1637.8	 Good boy! Once your puppy has mastered settling with the distractions you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1643.8s	1643.8	 now practice when you and your puppy are standing up and moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1647.2s	1647.2	 which is harder for most puppies so you'll need to go back to marking the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1651.2s	1651.2	 moment the distraction happens at first to set your puppy up for success.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1655.8s	1655.8	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1658.3s	1658.3	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1661.4s	1661.4	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1665.2s	1665.2	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1668.3s	1668.3	 Good job! Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1673.5s	1673.5	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1676.9s	1676.9	 Good boy!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1680.2s	1680.2	 Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1683.3s	1683.3	 When your puppy looks calm and can easily ignore the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1686.7s	1686.7	 you can increase how long you make the distraction happen before you mark.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1691.0s	1691.0	 You can also increase the difficulty of the distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1694.5s	1694.5	 Most puppies find fast erratic movement harder to resist
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1698.8s	1698.8	 than slow predictable movement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1704.5s	1704.5	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1707.6s	1707.6	 Good! If you have a puppy that's extremely excited about grabbing moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1712.2s	1712.2	 things you can feed the treat as you move the thing at first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1716.4s	1716.4	 So I'm moving this thing and feeding the puppy like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1720.6s	1720.6	 Good job! And now I'm going to do the leash first and then mark and feed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1728.2s	1728.2	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1731.6s	1731.6	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1734.6s	1734.6	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1737.7s	1737.7	 Good! If your puppy were to grab onto whatever it is that you're working with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1743.2s	1743.2	 put a high value treat to your dog's nose and then start over by making it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1747.5s	1747.5	 much less arousing. Good! Also I have a video on how to train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1752.5s	1752.5	 the cue drop so that you can teach your puppy to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1755.4s	1755.4	 let go of things that they start to pick up or they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1758.4s	1758.4	 tugging on. You can also use a kissy noise or the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1761.6s	1761.6	 recall if you see your puppy going over to someone else
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1765.1s	1765.1	 to pull on their shoelaces or to get their clothing you can make your kissy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1768.7s	1768.7	 noise, attention noise, or call your puppy to you so that your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1773.2s	1773.2	 puppy isn't practicing that behavior. When you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1777.2s	1777.2	 see your puppy get interested in something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1779.4s	1779.4	 like someone's shuffling feet or shoelaces interrupt your puppy and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1783.3s	1783.3	 redirect him to something you do want him to be doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1786.2s	1786.2	 like playing with his toys. Then make a mental note
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1789.4s	1789.4	 to work on that specific distraction in a training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1793.6s	1793.6	 Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1800.8s	1800.8	 Here's a list of the steps. Step one, mark as the distraction happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1805.8s	1805.8	 Step two, mark after the distraction begins.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1809.4s	1809.4	 Step three, add more time before you mark.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1812.7s	1812.7	 Step four, add difficulty and variety to the training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1819.0s	1819.0	 For the most successful training you want to work on the distractions before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1823.2s	1823.2	 the puppy is exposed to them in real life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1825.8s	1825.8	 For example, having your kids move in front of your puppy for the first time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1830.0s	1830.0	 in a training session and reinforcing your puppy for remaining calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1833.9s	1833.9	 as it happens. Beginning first by having the kids simply walking past your puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1839.7s	1839.7	 I hope you found this video helpful for your training. If you'd like to support
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1843.6s	1843.6	 my work don't forget to like, comment, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1846.4s	1846.4	 subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6uTgSr0acBo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=178&pp=iAQB&t=1849.5s	1849.5	 member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button.
