https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! If you've not been following me on Facebook or Instagram, you probably don't know that I got a new family member.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=7.3s	7.3	 I adopted this little Chihuahua a couple of days ago and she still doesn't have a name.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=12.6s	12.6	 So I really fell in love with her from the moment I saw her and she's just so sweet and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=19.7s	19.7	 very active. So for a normal family,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=23.3s	23.3	 I think she would be just a little too much because she's very busy and needs to learn to calm down a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=29.7s	29.7	 So I'm giving her a little massage here. She's doing really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=34.0s	34.0	 She also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=36.7s	36.7	 has issues with being left alone and the wonderful thing is I work from home so I can show you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 step-by-step what I'm doing with her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=46.3s	46.3	 She's a little bit mouthy, which is I actually really like in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=51.0s	51.0	 she's nine weeks right now. I like little puppies to be mouthy because it also means they're pretty social.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=57.5s	57.5	 If your puppy is not mouthy at all, sometimes that means they just haven't been playing very much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=63.4s	63.4	 So I like a little bit of mouthiness. It's a good sign of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=68.7s	68.7	 confidence and wanting to interact, which I really like.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=72.6s	72.6	 So I wanted to talk to you guys a little bit about the beginning of introducing the dogs together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=79.2s	79.2	 So I like to be really careful from the start so that the behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=84.8s	84.8	 that they learn to do with each other are the behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=88.2s	88.2	 I want them to do and that are beneficial for all the dogs and also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=93.0s	93.0	 so that the dogs are only having positive experiences around each other and learning to trust and feel confident in each other's presence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=100.8s	100.8	 while learning how to interact with each other and what's appropriate and what's not.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=105.6s	105.6	 I actually already have a video on YouTube on how to introduce a dog into a household that already has a dog or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=112.9s	112.9	 multiple dogs and I'll link that in the description below. That's starring my dog Halo when he was a puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=119.4s	119.4	 I also have a video on demand about multi-dog households
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=124.5s	124.5	 that's an hour and 15 minutes and you can find that on my website dogmantix.com if you just didn't get enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=131.5s	131.5	 information from my free videos on YouTube.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=134.5s	134.5	 Okay, so with these guys the game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=138.9s	138.9	 she's shivering a little bit because she's excited about the treats which is pretty normal for chihuahuas
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=144.3s	144.3	 but the game that I'm going to play with these guys is having the little pup learn that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=149.4s	149.4	 they can both take treats in each other's presence. That's the beginning step. So they're just taking treats in each other's presence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=160.1s	160.1	 Good job. So I'm feeding them both at the same time at first and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=164.9s	164.9	 then I'm going to start to feed Kiko first and then the puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=172.1s	172.1	 Good. It's very good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=177.8s	177.8	 And if she goes for it I can go back to feeding them both at the same time and then doing a fake out like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=186.4s	186.4	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=189.9s	189.9	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=192.5s	192.5	 I don't know if you can see Kiko back there. I think you can.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=198.7s	198.7	 I would also like her to lay down, but she's a little excited right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=204.9s	204.9	 So I'll just move her over here so you can see her better. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=211.6s	211.6	 When Halo was a puppy and I made the video of taking turns taking treats, which I'm doing right now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=218.0s	218.0	 I didn't have him on a leash and harness in the video because he didn't move very fast and I could easily block him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=224.7s	224.7	 It took him a while to stand up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=226.3s	226.3	 But this little chihuahua puppy is so fast that I've got her on a leash and a harness and I could have had the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=233.2s	233.2	 behind barriers, which I did at first, but now they're ready for this step right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=238.5s	238.5	 Here you can see I'm using a barrier to first introduce my dogs to my puppy the first day I got her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=245.3s	245.3	 Keep in mind a barrier like this is not safe for untrained dogs. They can easily jump over it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=251.4s	251.4	 So I suggest having the dog in a leash and harness attached to something secure if you're worried about that happening.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=257.7s	257.7	 You can also work with one dog at a time before adding them together as a group and keep in mind some dogs resource guard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=264.7s	264.7	 so you want to take that into consideration.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=269.6s	269.6	 This is what we do in this house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=274.9s	274.9	 Here's footage of the little puppy meeting Kiko, my chihuahua for the first time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=280.4s	280.4	 They could interact immediately because Kiko is amazing with young puppies and extremely benevolent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=287.1s	287.1	 So I knew the puppy wasn't going to have a negative experience with my chihuahua.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=292.1s	292.1	 You can see Wish is still not feeling so great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=294.7s	294.7	 So I'm going to throw a treat for her like this and then see if she comes back to join the game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=300.0s	300.0	 or if she wants to be at a further distance while we're playing this game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=304.4s	304.4	 But here she comes so I'm going to feed her back there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=309.8s	309.8	 Anyway, so yeah, I have this leash on this puppy so that I don't by mistake if I'm distracted feeding Kiko a treat over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=318.2s	318.2	 that the puppy doesn't just suddenly jump off and jump on top of one of my dog's heads because Wish would find that really aversive and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=326.6s	326.6	 it might ruin her first impressions of this little one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=331.5s	331.5	 So what you can do is feed the little puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=334.7s	334.7	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=336.1s	336.1	 And then feed everyone else a treat for watching.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=339.4s	339.4	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=342.1s	342.1	 And I like to use my hand as a blocker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=344.5s	344.5	 Say for example the puppy were to go and try to interact with the other dog's faces.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=349.1s	349.1	 I can block that at first and then what I like to do is teach them to settle like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=354.7s	354.7	 and then at some point they're going to start to want to interact with each other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=359.0s	359.0	 and I'll show you a little clip of how Halo was wanting to interact with the puppy this morning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=364.1s	364.1	 You can see his tail is wagging softly but I've got my arm there in case he tries to initiate play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=370.3s	370.3	 which is just inappropriate to do with a two pound puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=376.2s	376.2	 Because the puppy was confident enough I could let him sniff the puppy's butt.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=380.7s	380.7	 Here's some footage of my terrier Tug saying hi to the puppy through a barrier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=385.7s	385.7	 Wish go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=388.5s	388.5	 So with Wish she does really well with this game where I throw a treat away from the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=394.1s	394.1	 and then she approaches to get another treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=397.4s	397.4	 That really builds her confidence with being near other dogs and it's a game I've played before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=402.5s	402.5	 so it's really building her confidence rather than getting treats in the settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=406.9s	406.9	 which she didn't look that happy about and now she's extremely close to the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=413.0s	413.0	 and I trust her really well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=414.4s	414.4	 She would never do anything unless the puppy were to go and bite her on the face or do something like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=420.7s	420.7	 So I've got the puppy on a leash and I can always use my hand as a blocker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=425.4s	425.4	 to prevent the puppy interacting with her and she trusts me a lot because we've worked on this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=430.1s	430.1	 If you were ever worried that your dog might bite your puppy or you just weren't sure,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=435.7s	435.7	 it's best to hire a professional trainer who doesn't use any forms of physical or psychological intimidation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=442.5s	442.5	 to help you with the introductions of your puppy to your adult dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=446.3s	446.3	 But at first if you don't have anyone in your area you can play it safe by following my video on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=453.3s	453.3	 introducing a puppy to your household and making sure to use as I show in this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=458.7s	458.7	 double barriers and having them at a distance where they're really having a positive emotional response.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=465.7s	465.7	 So you can see here Wish, she's got her ears perky before she was looking the other direction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=473.7s	473.7	 Like she wanted the food, she wanted to be near me but she didn't specifically want to be near this little pup.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=479.7s	479.7	 She's socially anxious and went out and about. She has no interest in meeting dogs and before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=487.5s	487.5	 she used to be really reactive as a young dog to other dogs and people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=493.5s	493.5	 She just had no interest in doing anything social. So I'm really proud of her because now Halo over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=501.5s	501.5	 is really really close to her and they get on so well. So this is why I take the time to do this training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=509.5s	509.5	 because all my dogs never argue with each other and they get on really well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=517.5s	517.5	 So it really reduces the chances of there being an argument or bullying or fighting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=525.5s	525.5	 So I love doing this training because it makes me feel happy and safe leaving my dogs all loose together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=531.5s	531.5	 which I do already. But of course because I have a little puppy I'm not going to leave the puppy with the other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=538.5s	538.5	 because what can happen is imagine them in a room and the puppy starts to whine and bang on the cage.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=544.5s	544.5	 Say the puppy wants to play with the other dogs and then the other dogs might want to go and correct the puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=551.5s	551.5	 through the fence or through the double barrier or just death stare at the puppy if you had a dog that likes to do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=558.5s	558.5	 So the best thing to do if you have a new puppy and a dog that you really want to make 100% of the interactions positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=567.5s	567.5	 is to separate them when you're gone. So I have my little pup in a X pen in the office and the other dogs in my bedroom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=576.5s	576.5	 so that they're far from each other and there's music on so they can't hear each other and that way I can make sure that I'm around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=585.5s	585.5	 to create only positive experiences with these little guys. Hey guys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=592.5s	592.5	 Where do you wish to go? Get it. Good. This is another wonderful thing because not only is Wish playing this game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=600.5s	600.5	 but the puppy is learning that when Wish moves fast it doesn't mean to get up and chase her which she would not like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=608.5s	608.5	 especially because she most likely would want to bite Wish on the tail. Hey little one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=614.5s	614.5	 And she's still shivering because of the excitement of the food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=618.5s	618.5	 The wonderful thing when you keep playing these games with other dogs say you have friends with dogs and you do settles at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=626.5s	626.5	 or taking turns taking treats like this when you start to play a game the dog knows they can think oh this is like that same game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=634.5s	634.5	 I played with Halo oh this dog must be a cool dog and this dog's not going to bother me because Emily's not going to let it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=641.5s	641.5	 So the more you play these games the more your dog will trust you that you're not going to let this new dog in the house mess with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=650.5s	650.5	 I hope you enjoyed this video. If you'd like to support my work don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=658.5s	658.5	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button. See you later guys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vtaGtdawJc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=179&pp=iAQB&t=665.5s	665.5	 You guys want to go out now? Huh? Do you all want to go out? Come on Dan. Let's go. Let's go. Come on. Come Kiko.
