https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody, this video is on some tips for teaching loose leash walking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=4.7s	4.7	 Frequently I get asked the same question by clients as well as from YouTube or in emails
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=11.1s	11.1	 that a person's dog has been walking nicely on leash after a lot of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=15.5s	15.5	 and some time has gone by and now the dog is pulling again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=19.0s	19.0	 and it feels overwhelming and what should they do to get the pulling to go away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=24.3s	24.3	 So in my opinion some of the things that can really really help is refreshing the dog on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=31.5s	31.5	 leash pressure game. So after some time if you haven't worked on it and every once in a while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=36.8s	36.8	 the dog pulls a little bit they can start forgetting about that concept that pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=41.8s	41.8	 on the leash means orient back to the handler. So when clients tell me this I suggest that they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=48.2s	48.2	 do at least 12 sessions on the leash pressure game inside the house in their yard in front of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=54.9s	54.9	 their house and places that it's easy using distractions that you make up so that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=61.4s	61.4	 work with your dog when they're 100 focused on the training rather than when they're excited and out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 and about. Check out the description below for a video tutorial on how to train the leash pressure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=72.3s	72.3	 exercise. Another really important thing to consider is that when a dog is not pulling and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=78.6s	78.6	 it means that something's changed. So the dog could be getting overly stressed in a good way or a bad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 way that's making him forget all that he's learned and he's pulling. So he might be feeling negative
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 emotional responses like he's nervous about something in the environment and that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=97.2s	97.2	 speeding him up and making him forget to practice impulse control and walk at the same pace as you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=103.7s	103.7	 so he wants to speed up or he's having a positive emotional response and he's like yeah I got to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=110.4s	110.4	 to that I got to get to this and that could be because he has not been in that environment before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=116.3s	116.3	 or something about it is novel and exciting maybe there's a new dog that's been up that street and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=121.2s	121.2	 he wants to sniff every single place that dog has been maybe you're walking with a new dog or a person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=127.5s	127.5	 or it could be that the dog is starting to anticipate something good that's going to happen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=132.5s	132.5	 that's further away so for example if you go to a baseball field where your dog is going to then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=138.1s	138.1	 run off leash at first it's really easy to walk to the baseball field but after a couple of repetitions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=144.9s	144.9	 the dog might start actually to be pulling you towards the baseball field and stressed because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=152.4s	152.4	 he really wants to be in that field playing off leash and not walking slowly at your side at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=159.1s	159.1	 snail's pace so in these situations I suggest doing the same thing if the dog is nervous about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 the environment I suggest choosing an environment the dog is least nervous about and working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=173.4s	173.4	 settle on a mat so the dog is just relaxing on a mat and getting reinforced for being in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=179.5s	179.5	 environment you could even do calm massage so if the dog hasn't learned settle on a mat yet you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 practice that inside the house and in the yard first so the dog is finding it a calming positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=192.9s	192.9	 experience to be relaxing on the mat don't start with with any dog with the settle outside first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=200.6s	200.6	 where they're excited or nervous the same is true for dogs that are excited about the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=207.3s	207.3	 they want to going into the environment is predicting that they're getting to things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=211.8s	211.8	 that they're very excited about so relaxing on a mat is a great way to teach them to calm down in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=218.4s	218.4	 those environments and that being out doesn't mean doing exciting things and rushing towards things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=225.4s	225.4	 they want to investigate so what you can do is have the dog relax on the mat after training and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=231.4s	231.4	 then you can take little outings where you move from the mat to go and investigate the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=237.0s	237.0	 and then return to the mat so the dog can take a little break rather than keeping on going the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=243.0s	243.0	 worst is sometimes for dogs if they're if they're going in a circuit and they know the circuit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=248.3s	248.3	 that's going to make them want to continue forward so you can have the mat and you take little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=253.4s	253.4	 voyages away from the mat and return if the dog's getting too excited and you can also practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=259.4s	259.4	 things for example if you have a house on a street that you walk on instead of walking in the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=265.5s	265.5	 circuit you can be either random or if you really have an issue with pulling you can walk back and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=272.4s	272.4	 forth in front of your house so you walk a little bit one way then you turn around and go the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=277.2s	277.2	 way and the great thing about this is that the dog has already smelled everything in that area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 so they become less and less excited about going back and forth and as they're succeeding you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=288.7s	288.7	 venture further and further away rather than going in a complete circuit now if you need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=295.7s	295.7	 extra help with these exercises i do actually have a six-week self-study course on my website
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 called leash walking connected on dogmatics.com that i'm very proud of that it it's really helpful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=309.8s	309.8	 for people who need the steps broken up so that they know exactly what to train each week with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=316.2s	316.2	 each exercise to get their dog back on track to walking on a loose leash but i do have a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=322.9s	322.9	 free youtube videos so the two that i talked about settle on the mat i will link in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=329.8s	329.8	 description below and then also i want to show you a game that you can play inside your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=336.5s	336.5	 first to teach your dog to stop when you stop and if you have multiple dogs it's extremely important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=344.8s	344.8	 to play this game where you're practicing walking multiple dogs in your house first in your backyard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=351.0s	351.0	 first before trying to walk multiple dogs outside because things are going to go a little bit haywire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=357.9s	357.9	 and just the presence of the other dog on leash can make your dog very excited so when first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=364.2s	364.2	 initiating having two dogs on leash on a walk i suggest doing it in your living room and outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=371.4s	371.4	 first so being next to each other has predicted in the past that they pay attention to you and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=377.1s	377.1	 get treats in a non-distracting environment rather than woohoo time to pull my owner down the block
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=384.0s	384.0	 teaching your dog to stop when you stop is a wonderful behavior to build your relationship
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=389.7s	389.7	 with your dog so they're more likely to notice your behavior out and about on a walk because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=394.7s	394.7	 most likely without any training if you were to suddenly stop while your dog's walking forward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=400.2s	400.2	 they're not going to notice and they're just going to hit the end of the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=403.6s	403.6	 another wonderful reason to teach this behavior if you have multiple dogs is that when you stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=410.2s	410.2	 to let another dog sniff maybe the other dog is near the grass and the other dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=414.9s	414.9	 on the side of the sidewalk that has cars that dog can politely wait while the other dog is sniffing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=421.4s	421.4	 now in no way do i am i saying that all dogs should learn to walk next to you for walks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=428.6s	428.6	 what i think is more natural is for dogs to be off leash enjoying and exploring and making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=433.4s	433.4	 choices and staying with you or exploring the environment on a loose leash next to you so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=439.4s	439.4	 don't have to teach your dog to walk next to you for your dog's benefit but when managing your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=447.2s	447.2	 in busy environments say for example the city where you have to keep your dog close or if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=452.9s	452.9	 going to a vet or there's an emergency say you're evacuating for a fire it's great to have this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=459.1s	459.1	 skill so your dog knows to stay near you especially if you have multiple dogs and you need to have them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=464.8s	464.8	 all on leash to evacuate in an emergency or go to the vet or or you're on vacation and you've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=473.4s	473.4	 got and you've gone somewhere where there are more people so that's why it's great to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=478.4s	478.4	 to walk next to you but there's no real benefit to it besides management and it is when you train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=485.5s	485.5	 it with positive reinforcement it's a great way to build your relationship and connection with your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=489.8s	489.8	 dog so the first step is simply feeding your dog at your side like this multiple treats like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=497.8s	497.8	 and the reason you're doing that is because you're reinforcing your dog for staying still at your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=502.0s	502.0	 side because most dogs if they're standing next to you will gravitate to being in front of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=507.3s	507.3	 so they can see you see your face and most people train their dogs in front of them like this so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=513.9s	513.9	 what we're teaching the dog is to be at the side so you can lure your dog back into the position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=518.9s	518.9	 if they go in front of you again or if they go in front you can simply take a step to the right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=524.6s	524.6	 and then begin the game again once your dog is reliably standing at your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=531.2s	531.2	 when you're standing you can then take a step forwards click and reinforce your dog at your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=536.6s	536.6	 side before your dog has a chance to take a step in front of you so you're going to take a step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=543.3s	543.3	 click and reinforce if you have a tall dog you can reinforce your dog right there in front of his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=549.9s	549.9	 face and then pull your hand behind your back so he's not just staring at your hand the whole time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=556.2s	556.2	 so if that's happening you can make sure your dog is looking up here then staring at the treat in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=561.7s	561.7	 your hand hi okay so once you're taking a step marking and reinforcing your dog at your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=569.0s	569.0	 you can then take a step and wait to see if your dog stops when you stop so i'm going to take a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=574.0s	574.0	 step forwards and i might have to say let's go tug stop mark and reinforce you can reinforce your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=580.7s	580.7	 stop mark and reinforce you can reinforce your dog for sitting but there's no real reason that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=588.6s	588.6	 they need to sit at your side so if your dog starts to sit you can encourage them out of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=593.9s	593.9	 sit by the way that you hold the treat are you ready so i'm going to take a step let's go good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=604.7s	604.7	 good it might take a few training sessions for your dog to get the idea of stopping when you stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=610.8s	610.8	 but once he's got it and you walk forwards and he stops when you stop you can start adding steps so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=616.0s	616.0	 you're going to take more steps before you stop and reinforce your dog let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=625.0s	625.0	 let's go let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=633.9s	633.9	 good if you have multiple dogs once you've practiced with the dogs one on one on this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=639.9s	639.9	 exercise you can then start working with them together inside your house this is also very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=645.4s	645.4	 helpful because you can start to understand how to manage both of their leashes in your hand or in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=652.0s	652.0	 both of your hands while you're still in the house and they're not pulling in every which way excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=656.3s	656.3	 that they're next to each other on a walk so i'm going to mark and reinforce them for being at my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=662.7s	662.7	 side like this good job tug and then i'm going to take a step forwards mark and reinforce and as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=669.6s	669.6	 you can see now they're having to wait as they watch the treats go to the other dog so sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=675.8s	675.8	 the dogs will want to go forwards towards each other to go see where their treat is going like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=680.7s	680.7	 tug might go over here into wish's space and that's not going to be very fun so this is great to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=686.9s	686.9	 on in your house when they're not excited about being out and about and then when you're out and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=692.1s	692.1	 about maybe you won't even use treats when working with both of the dogs but if you have dogs that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=698.0s	698.0	 guard treats or they're just not good with each other i suggest getting help from a professional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=703.3s	703.3	 trainer that doesn't use any forms of intimidation to work on this first but one of the games you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=708.6s	708.6	 work on first if you're working with multiple dogs together is teaching them to take turns for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=714.0s	714.0	 taking treats and i'll put that in the description below let's go good let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=723.8s	723.8	 here i'm playing the same game but with both dogs on my left side it can be useful to have all your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=732.1s	732.1	 dogs on one side of you if you're using your body as a blocker perhaps there's a child that's running
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=738.1s	738.1	 around that wants to mess with your dogs or maybe there's a dog that needs space and that dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=744.0s	744.0	 going to be much more comfortable with your body blocking the view of your dogs or if your dog has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=749.5s	749.5	 an issue with other dogs you can be the visual blocker for your dogs now i'm playing the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=756.2s	756.2	 game with my dogs in their loose walking positions i like to let them walk in front of me and at my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=762.4s	762.4	 side when they're in a big group so they have room to look around and explore and as you can see this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=768.0s	768.0	 exercise is a great exercise to get them all focused on me and my movement because when i stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=774.4s	774.4	 another dog might be needing to sniff or go to the bathroom and the other ones can wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=779.8s	779.8	 thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like comment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=785.1s	785.1	 and subscribe to my channel you can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup which gains
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86u_iFuijEI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=791.0s	791.0	 you access to an extra members video a month by clicking the join button see you later guys
