https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody! Today I'm going to be talking about this book, Doggie Language,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 A Dog Lover's Guide to Understanding Your Best Friend by Lily Chin.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=9.0s	9.0	 Now, if you're already familiar with my work, you might already know that I don't do any sorts of paid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=14.6s	14.6	 sponsorships for products or businesses so that I can remain impartial. And the reason that I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=21.1s	21.1	 want you guys to investigate this book is that it's extremely important to me. Frequently I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=27.1s	27.1	 asked to make videos or manuscripts, written articles about dog body language and I just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=35.5s	35.5	 have never had enough time to do it. And Lily Chin, who I believe is one of the most influential
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=43.0s	43.0	 people in the dog world, who's really, really changed the world for how people treat their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=49.0s	49.0	 dogs with her illustrations, she's created this amazing book that on Amazon it's just around $11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=57.3s	57.3	 so it's affordable for everyone and I've read every single word in this book and it's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 going to help so many dog lovers but also dog trainers and I really suggest reading this book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=69.9s	69.9	 to children and showing them the pictures because the way that she draws, she really pays attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=76.0s	76.0	 to the information that you're looking for. So the drawings are very simple in the book but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 they're so instructive as to what to look for to understand your dog and how they're feeling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=89.3s	89.3	 So for my type of training it's very important to understand that when you're using positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=95.8s	95.8	 reinforcement, just because you're using treats doesn't mean you're using positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=102.7s	102.7	 and the only way to be able to tell what you're doing is if the behavior increases obviously but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=109.0s	109.0	 also how the dog is looking. So being able to read your dog's body language is so important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 to becoming a better dog owner and a better trainer. So one of the reasons I believe I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=121.8s	121.8	 had success in my career of training is being able to read dogs and this book is a great first start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=129.4s	129.4	 to anyone who hasn't had any experience in training and getting a top-rate education on looking for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=136.6s	136.6	 the small signs in the dog's face and body posture on how the dog is possibly feeling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=144.9s	144.9	 For example, when you're training a dog just because you give them a treat you would assume
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 that they like it and that it's a positive experience and that it's positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=156.0s	156.0	 but by being able to read the dog's body language you can tell if the treat is positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=163.7s	163.7	 to the dog. For example, some shy fearful dog might be in a puppy class and the trainer that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 the dog doesn't know goes to give the dog a treat and the dog backs away and puts his ears back,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=174.7s	174.7	 licks his lips and doesn't accept the treat. You can understand that in that environment that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=180.5s	180.5	 not a reinforcer to the dog. It might actually turn into a punisher if the dog is constantly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 pointed at with food by strangers so being able to see how your dog is responding to the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=194.8s	194.8	 and to you can really help build your relationship with your dog and so I feel like like I've cheated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=202.9s	202.9	 that everything is in this book and as I said I don't do any paid sponsorships of products or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 anything. I'm just thrilled that Lily created this book and she's such an amazing person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=217.2s	217.2	 like she this is going to change I'm going to cry a little bit. This book is going to change the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=223.1s	223.1	 lives for so many dogs and people and help them to create a two-sided relationship with their dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=229.2s	229.2	 For more information check out the description below of where you can get the book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLuKnrVYmQs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=182&pp=iAQB&t=233.8s	233.8	 and learn about the book. See you later guys!
