https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone, this video is on teaching the rear end awareness exercise. Before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=5.6s	5.6	 working on this exercise I suggest you first work on the skill of your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=10.1s	10.1	 following the lure without licking or biting at it for duration so that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=15.8s	15.8	 you'll then be able to use the lure while working on this exercise without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=19.8s	19.8	 the dog getting frustrated or confused or trying to lick the treat out of your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=24.3s	24.3	 hand. Okay so once you've taught your dog to follow the lure like this and I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=30.0s	30.0	 have a video that I'll link in the description below then you can start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=34.2s	34.2	 teaching your dog the concept of putting his feet up on a platform. What to use as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=40.0s	40.0	 a platform? To teach the dog the concept of keeping the front feet up on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=45.1s	45.1	 platform it's easier for most dogs if the platform is taller. If the platform
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=50.7s	50.7	 is too thin sometimes they won't know that they're standing on the platform
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=55.1s	55.1	 and they can step off the platform as you're luring them around to do the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=59.9s	59.9	 exercise like Tug's doing there. So only after training is he able to use one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 this low but for some dogs you want to make sure that they're not too tall if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 they have issues and it's best to check with a physical therapist or veterinarian
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=76.3s	76.3	 if this exercise of stepping on a higher box is a good exercise for your dog. Tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=83.0s	83.0	 that looks so cute. I made my platforms out of plastic dishes that are really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=88.5s	88.5	 sturdy and I glued drawer liners that are non-slip on top of them and I also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=93.9s	93.9	 use a fitness pad for humans with velcro taped on the bottom so that it sticks in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=98.9s	98.9	 place on the carpet. Now the platform that you choose shouldn't restrict the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=106.4s	106.4	 dog's back leg movement so it should be small enough that they're able to put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=110.1s	110.1	 their paws up and turn around it but it should be big enough that when the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=116.7s	116.7	 is standing squarely on it that they're not having to keep their two front feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=120.7s	120.7	 really close together to turn around because the platform is too small. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=125.1s	125.1	 going to make it harder for the dog. The lower the platform the easier it is for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=130.0s	130.0	 the dog to turn and take steps with their back legs because there's less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=135.2s	135.2	 weight on the back feet than on a taller platform so the heavier your dog the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=141.4s	141.4	 harder it will be the taller the platform where if you have a very small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=145.2s	145.2	 light dog it won't make as much a difference as a really heavy dog that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=149.7s	149.7	 resting more weight on the back end so if you notice your dog is not turning or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=154.8s	154.8	 budging at all I suggest lowering the level of the platform. You can also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=159.5s	159.5	 practice teaching your dog to spin in a circle to give them an idea of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=165.0s	165.0	 movement because if you've worked on standing still on a platform and now you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=169.3s	169.3	 want your dog to move sometimes that can be confusing so teaching the dog to spin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=174.1s	174.1	 in a circle he's very excited first left and right like that and then when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=187.9s	187.9	 bring out the platform after practicing going in a circle left and right like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=192.2s	192.2	 this then your dog might be able to combine the two behaviors rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=198.9s	198.9	 think it's a static behavior where they have to stand in place. Now if you do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=204.2s	204.2	 this early on with a puppy or a new dog that's not learned to spin in a circle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=210.0s	210.0	 left and right I suggest being careful that the two behaviors don't get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=213.9s	213.9	 combined and your dog starts to spin in a circle like he's doing the rear end
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=218.2s	218.2	 awareness exercise. If you see that starting to happen you can use a large
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=222.3s	222.3	 cone and get your dog to learn to spin around the cone so that they're doing a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=227.2s	227.2	 nice smooth movement to spin left and right rather than both of the tricks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=233.2s	233.2	 getting combined into one. Teach step up on the platform. To teach paws up using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=241.2s	241.2	 luring simply lure the dog over the platform and mark and reinforce the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=247.2s	247.2	 for putting his feet up on the platform. You might just click one foot going up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=251.6s	251.6	 at first. If the dog is struggling to want to put their feet up on something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=256.0s	256.0	 you could first start out with a long platform and just call your dog and mark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=260.6s	260.6	 the moment that they step up onto whatever object it is in front of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=264.8s	264.8	 or you could use the stairs of your house or a stair outside to begin this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=269.6s	269.6	 behavior if the dog is nervous to put their feet on something. Also choosing an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=274.3s	274.3	 object that is extremely stable and non-slip will be very helpful because if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=278.6s	278.6	 it's slippery or feels hollow to the dog they might not want to step up on it. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=283.7s	283.7	 you lure the dog onto the platform mark and feed multiple times for staying on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=288.9s	288.9	 the platform then use a release cue like free and mark and feed your dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=295.1s	295.1	 getting off of the platform. You can lure your dog off if he doesn't think to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=299.0s	299.0	 it himself.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=301.3s	301.3	 If your dog is reliably getting up onto the platform when you lure your dog you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=317.6s	317.6	 can add a cue. I like to use the cue pause up so I'm gonna release her and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=322.1s	322.1	 say free and place a treat down here then I'm gonna say pause up and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=326.7s	326.7	 lure her onto the platform mark and feed multiple times and then I'm gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=331.6s	331.6	 say free and if she gets off I'm gonna mark and feed. After a couple of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=336.5s	336.5	 sessions you can see if your dog might offer getting up onto the platform on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=340.6s	340.6	 his own when it's presented or put in front of you and then you can mark and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=344.7s	344.7	 feed multiple times say the release cue free put a treat down and then if your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=350.6s	350.6	 dog reliably gets onto the platform three times in a row like that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=355.3s	355.3	 add your verbal cue without a hand signal so I can say after she's eaten
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=360.1s	360.1	 the treat pause up mark and feed and if she didn't think to go and put her feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=364.8s	364.8	 up I could go back to luring her to put her feet back up on the platform like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=368.4s	368.4	 that. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=376.4s	376.4	 There are a couple things you can do to initially get the movement. One is luring the dog's head so that they look to the left and look to the right and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=385.0s	385.0	 if it's very difficult for your dog or they've got a very bendy neck you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=389.6s	389.6	 practice going one way and then quickly switching to the other way and seeing if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=393.5s	393.5	 they might make a back foot movement. For some dogs you might have to go down here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=397.1s	397.1	 to get them to think to turn so holding the treat super low can be helpful for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=402.0s	402.0	 some dogs. So if they're really just not moving like this you can go back to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=406.8s	406.8	 seeing if they can spin in a circle and then do pause up and then cue a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=411.9s	411.9	 bit of that spin and see if you might get some rear end movement. Another trick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=416.6s	416.6	 that's really helpful is standing like this and then basically with the dog in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=422.2s	422.2	 front of you you're pulling the treat behind your leg so the dog can't see it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=426.4s	426.4	 anymore and see if that might encourage your dog to look around the corner. So the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=431.6s	431.6	 dog gets up onto the platform then you move in place so the platform is on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=436.8s	436.8	 left or right side and then you pull the treat around the corner like that and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=441.2s	441.2	 see if the dog thinks to turn to find the treat. I don't suggest moving into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=447.3s	447.3	 the dog to get them to turn around the platform because maybe it's not very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=453.6s	453.6	 aversive to the dog, the social pressure of you moving into their space, but maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=460.1s	460.1	 it is and also what can happen is that then that becomes the cue to turn so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=466.6s	466.6	 always have to walk into your dog to get them to turn and it makes it harder to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=470.8s	470.8	 get the dog to turn into your space if that makes sense. So I know some people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=476.7s	476.7	 use that method and some dogs don't mind but if you had if you were new to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=482.0s	482.0	 training and you couldn't read your dog's stress signals walking into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=486.0s	486.0	 your dog to get them to turn might backfire and that they won't be as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=490.8s	490.8	 confident doing the behavior as if you've really reinforced their choice to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=496.5s	496.5	 want to do it for the food rather than to avoid something. Here's Wish, the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=502.2s	502.2	 from the previous clip as a nine-week-old puppy in her first training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=506.5s	506.5	 lesson to turn to the left and the right. She'd already learned to put her paws up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=511.1s	511.1	 on the platform and here you can see I'm trying the technique of moving her head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=516.0s	516.0	 to the left and the right and I'm being very generous and marking just a tiny
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=521.0s	521.0	 movement to the left and the right. Here you can see I've spent quite a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=524.9s	524.9	 time trying to turn her in one direction so I try the other, get a tiny
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=528.8s	528.8	 stutter step and then nothing in both directions so I lure her in a circle and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=534.9s	534.9	 give her a treat for that so she doesn't get frustrated but you can see she sat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=538.7s	538.7	 down as if to say that was too much so you want to make sure to give enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=542.8s	542.8	 treats that the dog stays in the game. The initial step of the dog taking a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=547.4s	547.4	 tiny stutter step to the left and right can be extremely hard for some dogs so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=552.2s	552.2	 don't panic if you've done a couple of training sessions where your dog barely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=555.8s	555.8	 even moves to the left and right. So what it's going to look like at first is just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=561.0s	561.0	 something as minimal as that is very impressive to begin with. If your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=568.0s	568.0	 doesn't move at all you want to make sure to be using a high rate of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=571.9s	571.9	 reinforcement because if they're just standing here and you keep trying to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=576.1s	576.1	 them to move their back leg they're trying, they don't know they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=580.2s	580.2	 supposed to be moving their back leg so instead of just withholding treats which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=583.9s	583.9	 can get them frustrated or want to quit completely I suggest freeing the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=589.1s	589.1	 from the platform free, give them a treat and then practice luring them in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=593.3s	593.3	 circle so that they're getting some reinforcement for trying things rather
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=597.5s	597.5	 than them being very confused as to why they're not getting anything because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=601.7s	601.7	 they are moving their head to follow the treat or they think you're giving them a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=605.4s	605.4	 treat. It's a good idea to keep the training sessions short and fun so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=610.4s	610.4	 perhaps just 10 repetitions or under 30 seconds of training and then move on to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=615.6s	615.6	 some other behavior so that the dog doesn't find it repetitive, boring or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=619.7s	619.7	 confusing. Ask for more steps to the left and right. After getting a couple steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=628.6s	628.6	 to the left and right like this with the treat really close to your dog's face
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=632.6s	632.6	 because you're turning their head like that you can then start to hold the treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=636.6s	636.6	 further away so the dog doesn't just learn to lick or try to get to your hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=641.1s	641.1	 so I suggest holding the treat out in front of your dog like this so their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=645.4s	645.4	 back is nice and straight you want to make sure that when you start turning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=649.9s	649.9	 them that you don't turn too fast where they suddenly go into a C shape and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=654.6s	654.6	 their back is getting left behind. I'll try and do it with Halo see if I can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=659.8s	659.8	 too fast. He's really good but you see how his back is kind of in a C shape like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=665.0s	665.0	 that you don't want to do that you want to go slow enough so that their back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=670.3s	670.3	 remains straight like that and you want to make sure that you're not holding the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=677.3s	677.3	 treat too high up because that will make them arch their back so I suggest a nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=684.7s	684.7	 posture where the head is relaxed and the treat is in front of the dog like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=689.0s	689.0	 this and you can practice moving your whole body in front of the dog like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=694.3s	694.3	 holding the treat good to the left and to the right equally you want to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=699.9s	699.9	 sure to work equal sides of the dog's body the same amount of repetitions and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=704.9s	704.9	 that's why I like to work on both directions in the same training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=707.6s	707.6	 sessions even though it's usually easier for the dog to go in one direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=711.9s	711.9	 trainers can tend to get reinforced by that so only work on that direction and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=717.0s	717.0	 then the other side isn't getting worked as much you can work on turning to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=721.7s	721.7	 left and the right in the front position the left side the right side and while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=727.0s	727.0	 away from the handler to initially get the behavior you can stand in front of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=732.5s	732.5	 your dog and lure them around like this but if you do it too long that's all you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=738.3s	738.3	 get for that behavior and you can't do things like getting the dog to flip into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=743.5s	743.5	 the heel position and the other position using a lure I suggest playing games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=749.3s	749.3	 where you lure the dog with the dog in front of you like this with the dog at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=754.6s	754.6	 your left side luring the dog with your left hand like this and on the right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=760.0s	760.0	 side when you switch the bait bag over luring the dog like this awesome and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=765.5s	765.5	 then also practice luring the dog with the left and the right hand while the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=771.1s	771.1	 object now if you have a very long dog this might be a little bit difficult and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=775.9s	775.9	 you could you you could use a target stick to do this but then you could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=779.9s	779.9	 teach the dog to free rotate without you having to be next to the dog where your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=785.2s	785.2	 body is part of the cue to move add a verbal cue to the movement once the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=792.6s	792.6	 is reliably turning when you lure the dog or when you move your position you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=798.1s	798.1	 can add cues I like to add a cue for either direction as well as in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=803.1s	803.1	 future teaching the dog front means to stay in front and line up no matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=807.9s	807.9	 which direction I I go in so for me I like to use turn to go anti-clockwise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=816.3s	816.3	 and flip to go clockwise good and then by teaching the different cues to mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=825.2s	825.2	 or the other you can then use them to train tricks so for him to teach back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=832.5s	832.5	 backwards weaving I can say turn and then back through awesome and then for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=839.5s	839.5	 other side flip oh he's already got it well he's already learned that behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=845.3s	845.3	 but I have a video on how to train backwards weaving in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=849.7s	849.7	 below using the rear end awareness to train it now there are many different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=853.8s	853.8	 ways to train dogs tricks and behaviors but if you're going to be using luring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=859.3s	859.3	 this is just one way of doing it removing the lure once the dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=866.3s	866.3	 confidently turning you can practice with an empty hand so you pretend like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=871.1s	871.1	 you've got a treat in an empty hand you turn the dog mark show them there's no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=875.9s	875.9	 treat but that they still get a treat and then you can go back to using a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=879.8s	879.8	 treat on the next turn and asking for more so as soon as the treat disappears
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=885.0s	885.0	 the behavior gets easier for the dog that way the criteria is higher for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=891.1s	891.1	 working with no treat but you've lowered the criteria of how long they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=895.7s	895.7	 have to do the behavior I like to do that every time I remove the treat from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=899.5s	899.5	 my hand so the dog really enjoys when the treat disappears because everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=903.4s	903.4	 gets way easier good another thing you can do is practice luring the dog and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=910.4s	910.4	 as soon as they're in the motion of moving you can take the hand away and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=914.0s	914.0	 see if you might get a stutter step after you've removed the lure and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=918.7s	918.7	 see if your dog might offer the same behavior at your side or in front of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=923.4s	923.4	 or on your right side remove the platform and drastically reduce criteria
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=930.1s	930.1	 when you remove the platform you can either make it lower at first or simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=935.0s	935.0	 remove it after you've warmed the dog up with the exercise so they know what they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=939.1s	939.1	 were working on at the time put the platform over there and then drastically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=943.8s	943.8	 reduce criteria so you're just doing a stutter step again and then what you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=949.3s	949.3	 do is practice the concept of doing the behavior without the box then bring the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=954.4s	954.4	 box back so that you can work on duration of the turning so that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=958.5s	958.5	 don't end up with getting less behavior because you need to help teach the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=963.5s	963.5	 the concept of doing it without the platform good job initially to get a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=969.2s	969.2	 dog to turn you can turn the treat out like this and it makes their body turn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=973.6s	973.6	 their but their rear end turn but if you do that for too long what can happen is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=978.3s	978.3	 as you turn or the dog backs around you say they're doing backwards circles they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=984.3s	984.3	 might turn their head out like that and arc their body in a C shape so if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=990.3s	990.3	 want the dog's head to be in a nice position when you're doing heel work you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=994.4s	994.4	 can combine cues of touch and turn good and taking little mini-stip mini mini
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1000.9s	1000.9	 steps at first touch and flip touch and flip good touch and flip good touch and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1011.3s	1011.3	 flip good I hope you found this tutorial helpful for your training if you'd like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1017.5s	1017.5	 to support my work don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1022.3s	1022.3	 can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXrLCWRtzko&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=183&pp=iAQB&t=1026.7s	1026.7	 button see you later guys
