https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! This video is on the topic of teaching your dog a calm, subtle, like you see my dogs doing here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=7.6s	7.6	 Even when the treat bag is out and it's rustling, they know that if they just relax and chill,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 the treats are coming to them and they're going to be highly reinforced for just chilling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=21.7s	21.7	 Hey wishy!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=23.7s	23.7	 There you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=26.5s	26.5	 If you have a dog that's extremely over aroused and gets easily frustrated around food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=32.1s	32.1	 it can seem counterintuitive to use food to help teach your dog to relax.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=37.9s	37.9	 Now if you were to just train a down stay or a duration go to a mat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=42.9s	42.9	 what could happen is that frustration and arousal over food can be extremely hard to get rid of.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=49.3s	49.3	 But what you can do instead and what I suggest as the first step to teaching this calm, subtle around food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=56.5s	56.5	 is to have treats around your house on counters in jars that are easy to access
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=63.5s	63.5	 or have low value treats in a bait bag on your person and you're just going to walk around the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=69.7s	69.7	 going about your daily business and when you see your dog relax,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=74.4s	74.4	 say he just plops down in the kitchen and he's not thinking about the food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=79.3s	79.3	 then you're going to calmly and slowly walk over to him and drop a treat between his paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=85.3s	85.3	 or use a calm marker like good or yep and then calmly go and drop a treat between his paws.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=92.5s	92.5	 Now what this is going to do is you're going to be reinforcing your dog for calmly settling around your house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=99.8s	99.8	 So it's a technique called capturing where you see the behavior that you want and you reinforce it with a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=107.6s	107.6	 Now what will happen at first is that most likely your dog will pop up and expect more treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=114.6s	114.6	 especially if you do training with treats and he's used to getting lots of treats one after the other or eating a whole meal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=120.9s	120.9	 So you feed your dog a treat, you show them that you have none more, no more treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=126.0s	126.0	 and then you go about your business and really convince your dog that treats aren't that was just a one-off treat for relaxing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=133.3s	133.3	 and what's going to happen is that your dog isn't going to then after getting one treat have that expectation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=139.0s	139.0	 that more treats are coming and that frustration and arousal about when am I going to get my next treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=144.0s	144.0	 and this is going to help extremely to calm your dog around food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=148.6s	148.6	 So the food being present isn't the predictor that you're suddenly going to do exciting stuff and get excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=155.4s	155.4	 It's about calm, being calm and relaxed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=159.3s	159.3	 Now a lot of people think also that if you use food to help calm your dog down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=164.5s	164.5	 that they then are going to be slower when you use food to do behaviors and tricks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=169.7s	169.7	 and as you might have seen on my YouTube channel that's simply not true.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 You can get a lot of speed and enthusiasm using treats, but you can use a different treat delivery.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=181.3s	181.3	 So for example, if I want my dog to do exciting heel work where my dog is really amped up and looking beautiful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=188.8s	188.8	 and with a tail flagging, I can use the treat in a different way than I use it for teaching calm behaviors like this settle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=198.7s	198.7	 For some of my clients, I suggest doing this exercise for at least five days before you even start any sort of initial training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=206.4s	206.4	 as what can happen is if you start trying to train with food when a dog is very excited and frustrated about food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=212.8s	212.8	 you can kind of create a habit that the dog gets frustrated as soon as you start training and gets overexcited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=219.3s	219.3	 So simply for five days not focusing on training your dog, but simply reinforcing those moments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=225.5s	225.5	 that your dog lays down and relaxes is really going to set you up for success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 to have a dog that's not getting frustrated during training over not getting the food fast enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=237.4s	237.4	 and not only is this great for us as humans, but I really think that it's in the dog's best interest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=244.9s	244.9	 because if we're going to be using food to get behavior and for them it's a stressful frustrating experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=251.3s	251.3	 that's simply not fair in my opinion and working on this is really going to help the dogs out to learn how to live with us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=259.0s	259.0	 and learn how to deal with our type of training that we want to do with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=264.2s	264.2	 Hay splashers.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=266.6s	266.6	 The way that I initially learned how to train the settle was using capturing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=270.4s	270.4	 where you put your dog on a leash and harness and you simply wait until the dog relaxes and settles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=276.6s	276.6	 and then you can calmly drop a treat or use a calm marker such as good before you drop the treat and reinforce that calm behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=285.5s	285.5	 However, I found when helping people online where I can't be there to help them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=290.5s	290.5	 or it's a person who has no training background and really needs help to teach their dog to relax on a mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=297.5s	297.5	 I found it very beneficial to actually use luring to train this calm behavior and get it started.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=304.5s	304.5	 So what I train is teaching the dog to go to the mat and lay down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=309.6s	309.6	 So one way of doing this is simply giving the dog a treat and then luring the dog onto the mat and then into the down position.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=319.0s	319.0	 Good and then calmly releasing the treats in between the dog's paws like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=324.6s	324.6	 You can also add a release cue such as free and I have a video on YouTube on how to train your dog to go to his bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=333.1s	333.1	 and I'll link that in the description below because you can even send your dog away to go and relax on a mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=339.5s	339.5	 or as you might have noticed I have some dogs lined up here I can send them to go and relax and wait their turn while another dog is working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=348.5s	348.5	 and even though I utilized a lure and you could even use a clicker to train this behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=356.0s	356.0	 you can see that you can then reinforce calmness during this behavior using that method of simply dropping a treat calmly between the dog's paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=366.5s	366.5	 for relaxing where you want them to relax and there's actually four dogs up here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=372.0s	372.0	 There you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 The wonderful thing about teaching your new dog or puppy a long duration subtle behavior is that it makes it extremely easy to then teach a long duration down stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=384.0s	384.0	 because the dog is used to having to wait calmly without getting frustrated before getting his next treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=391.0s	391.0	 so simply not receiving a treat doesn't make the dog feel like they did something wrong and they need to change their behavior such as offer different behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=400.0s	400.0	 or come running to you to say hey what's going on I've been laying here for so long something must be up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=406.0s	406.0	 So I really like to teach the subtle for many reasons and one of them actually is to train long duration behaviors where the dog is static.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=415.5s	415.5	 You can add a verbal cue to the settling behavior so for me when the dog is settling on a mat I simply say go to your mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=423.5s	423.5	 and that just means that you stay on the mat and relax on it until you get a release or you can have a situational cue that anytime the dog is on leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=433.5s	433.5	 and you're standing for a long period of time or sitting for a long period of time that is the cue to settle or you can have a verbal cue to tell your dog to relax and settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=445.0s	445.0	 such as settle or a Gershia Stewart uses the cue relax which I think is a really lovely cue.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=451.5s	451.5	 Now we're practicing the same exercise with the dog on a leash and harness next to a chair with the dog's mat below the chair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=460.0s	460.0	 So what I am doing is walking towards the chair and as the dog reaches the mat I'm cueing the dog to lay down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=467.5s	467.5	 so you could actually turn the mat into the cue to lay down and that is simply by repeating this exercise multiple times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=475.0s	475.0	 and then not giving the down cue and seeing if the dog might offer laying down on the mat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=480.5s	480.5	 And then with this behavior you want to be very slow and calm when you deliver the treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=485.5s	485.5	 You don't want to be throwing them or throwing them to reset the dog because that can get the dog really excited about the treats when you want your dog to be calm.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=495.0s	495.0	 Hey Lofree! So there he just offered the behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=502.0s	502.0	 Once your dog is offering laying down on the mat or after you say your cue you can then sit in a chair with your dog on a leash and harness with the mat below you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=513.0s	513.0	 and anytime you notice your dog relaxing and not staring at your food you can mark and reinforce your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=520.5s	520.5	 Now for some dogs this can be extremely difficult if you're in your own house with absolutely no distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=528.0s	528.0	 because it looks very much like a training session when you have food on you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=533.0s	533.0	 You're used to training your dog and getting your dog to focus on you 100% and expect that food is coming.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=541.0s	541.0	 So I suggest for the average person that when you get to this step of sitting in a chair and trying to reinforce your dog for not thinking about the food like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=552.0s	552.0	 I suggest doing it outside somewhere that's not too exciting or too distracting for your dog where they might be stressed and not want to take food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=563.0s	563.0	 So maybe your backyard where there's some noises happening but your dog is still able to train with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=569.5s	569.5	 and what you can do is utilize those distractions as the moment to mark and reinforce your dog for relaxing calmly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=577.5s	577.5	 So here inside the house what can easily happen is that the dog can learn oh it's about looking away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=584.5s	584.5	 and then you get your dog offering you these ways of getting you to reinforce them by looking to the left or kicking a leg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=593.5s	593.5	 so it looks like they're relaxing when really they're thinking how do I get that next treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=599.0s	599.0	 So to use the treats to reinforce the dog for being calm around the food and not fixating on the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=606.0s	606.0	 going out to a distracting location where your dog is going to naturally look to the left to hear a noise or smell a smell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=614.0s	614.0	 or if you're working in the house your dog actually is starting to lay down and take a nap and rest their chin on their paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=621.5s	621.5	 you can reinforce it but when you see your dog starting to offer you little behaviors like tapping his chin down on the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=630.5s	630.5	 to get you to give him a treat then you want to make sure that you're not reinforcing those behaviors.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=636.5s	636.5	 If you go somewhere and your dog is a little bit stressed say you've gone to a cafe and your dog isn't thinking to just relax at your feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 you can revert back to luring your dog into the position giving them an initial treat and then marking every time they notice a distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=654.0s	654.0	 and you can also calmly pet your dog if that helps calm your dog down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=658.0s	658.0	 So not petting like this like most people like to pet their dog when they're feeling a little bit nervous or worried about their dog's behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=667.5s	667.5	 you want to make sure that when you're petting your dog to help calm your dog down that your hands are still or moving extremely slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=676.5s	676.5	 so you can just rest your hand on your dog to help calm him down or move it extremely slowly across your dog's body
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=685.0s	685.0	 Sometimes sighing and blinking your eyes when your dog looks at you can help them to calm down in a new environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=694.0s	694.0	 because they're seeing that you're calm and relaxed in that environment. Hey Pupsy!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=699.0s	699.0	 So here we are we've added in some handling into the saddle and he looks pretty sleepy right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=707.0s	707.0	 his eyes are blinking softly and slowly and the muscles in his body are very loose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=713.5s	713.5	 I think he might actually fall asleep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=716.5s	716.5	 Good! And I can mark and then drop the treat between his paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=720.5s	720.5	 Sometimes it's easier to just move and drop the treat between their paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=726.5s	726.5	 but using a calm marker that's always associated with calm movements is a great idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=733.5s	733.5	 I don't suggest using the clicker for this exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=738.0s	738.0	 However if you use the clicker to train extremely calm behaviors it's really not going to matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=743.0s	743.0	 but I prefer if you're out and about to just calmly drop the treat between your dog's paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=751.0s	751.0	 and that way if you're talking to someone at a cafe you don't have to draw attention to your training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=757.0s	757.0	 but also with that clicker if you have a prehistory of doing lots of training with the clicker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=763.5s	763.5	 hearing that clicker can get the dog into training mode where they're thinking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=767.5s	767.5	 hmm what do I need to do next to get that treat where with this calm saddle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=772.5s	772.5	 you're basically reinforcing your dog for relaxing on his own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=776.5s	776.5	 and the great thing about that is that your dog is going to start choosing to do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=780.5s	780.5	 and when you stop clicking and stop marking and giving food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=784.5s	784.5	 they're going to enjoy settling at your feet when on a leash and harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=789.0s	789.0	 without having to have treats all the time like my other dogs are doing over there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=793.0s	793.0	 and they've been settled for maybe an hour because I've had to do some retakes of this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=799.0s	799.0	 so the great thing is that you're teaching them how to enjoy relaxing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=803.0s	803.0	 Thank you so much for watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=805.0s	805.0	 If you'd like to support my work don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=811.0s	811.0	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=816.5s	816.5	 I just want to give a quick shout out to the service dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=820.5s	820.5	 who support my channel through the Kikopup membership
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=823.5s	823.5	 I greatly appreciate your support for making videos like this one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=827.5s	827.5	 to educate the general public on how to train dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=831.5s	831.5	 without the use of physical and psychological intimidation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsqC9hbefig&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=191&pp=iAQB&t=835.5s	835.5	 See you later guys!
