https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! This video is on the topic of training the Leveque using positive reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=6.2s	6.2	 If you just got a new puppy or an adult dog that hasn't had very much prior training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=11.5s	11.5	 I suggest first working on the attention noise, the attention game, and the leash pressure game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 first before attempting this exercise. You can find links to video tutorials in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 As you'll notice, the puppy, my puppy, that I'm using in the video is a little bit older
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=30.5s	30.5	 and hasn't previously worked on the leave it exercise yet but it looks like he's already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=37.2s	37.2	 trained because he's previously worked on the three exercises that I described.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=43.1s	43.1	 Step one. Put extremely low value food down on the ground. Move far enough away that your dog can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 easily look away from the food and back at you. Mark and feed your dog for choosing to look away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 from the food. The first step is putting a plate of low value food down on the ground out of reach. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=62.3s	62.3	 suggest 10 to 15 feet away from your dog at first. It's easier if you have a helper to hold your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=68.5s	68.5	 leash as you put the food down or you could put your dog in another room. Now hopefully he'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=74.3s	74.3	 notice it on the floor like that and any time that he looks away from the distraction and looks back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=80.0s	80.0	 at me I'm going to click him. So actually he's doing really good so we're going to get a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=85.0s	85.0	 bit closer to the distraction. He's not looking at it. There we go. Good job. Wishy go jump up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=93.6s	93.6	 Wish doesn't like that there's a fly in the room. Wish go jump up. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=102.2s	102.2	 Good. If your dog doesn't think to look away from the food on his own, you can use an attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=108.5s	108.5	 noise. If he still can't look away from it, it means the distraction is too hard. If this happens,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=114.8s	114.8	 use a lower value distraction or create distance from the distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=123.0s	123.0	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=126.7s	126.7	 To set your training up for success, use low value food as the distraction at first and high value
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=133.0s	133.0	 food as the reinforcer. This will make it easy for the dog to choose to look away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=142.1s	142.1	 Good boy. When your dog looks away from the distraction, you can mark and reinforce multiple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=147.7s	147.7	 times. This will make it less likely for the dog to feel like he needs to keep looking at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=152.8s	152.8	 distraction and will make it easier to add duration to the leave it queue. Step two, change things up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=161.2s	161.2	 Move the location of the distraction, use a different distraction,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=165.7s	165.7	 and approach and pass it from different angles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=184.3s	184.3	 Good boy. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=191.5s	191.5	 Good boy. Step three, add the queue. Once your dog is looking away from the distraction within
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 three seconds, you can add your queue. Move the distraction or change your location to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=204.1s	204.1	 dog to notice the distraction again. Then say your queue, leave it, mark, and reinforce your dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=210.7s	210.7	 turning back toward you. If your dog doesn't look away from the distraction, stop saying your queue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=216.7s	216.7	 until the behavior is reliably happening within three seconds. This will help create a queue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=222.4s	222.4	 that the dog responds to promptly after you say it. Leave it. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=235.0s	235.0	 Leave it. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=241.1s	241.1	 Good boy. Leave it. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=247.7s	247.7	 Leave it. Awesome. Step four, continue to generalize the behavior and add criteria.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=257.7s	257.7	 I've taken my puppy off leash and now I've got the hot dogs in this food container. So I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=261.4s	261.4	 put that down like that and I'm going to say leave it. Good boy. Leave it. Awesome. So say he kept
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=272.4s	272.4	 sniffing the container, I could show him the treat and lure him away like that. If the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=277.9s	277.9	 goes for the distraction more than three times in a row, it means the criteria is too high and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=283.7s	283.7	 the training will not be as effective as if you break up the steps into smaller approximations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=289.4s	289.4	 such as working from further away or using an easier distraction. When the dog is off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=294.8s	294.8	 leash for the first time, go back to using the easiest distraction. Leave it. Good job. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=307.5s	307.5	 Ready?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=318.4s	318.4	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=325.1s	325.1	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=340.0s	340.0	 Good boy. All done. You did so good. You could allow the dog to get the distraction on a release
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=347.5s	347.5	 cue such as get it. However, if you do this, it can lead to the dog anticipating being released
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=353.6s	353.6	 as well as getting more excited during the training process because of the fast movement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=358.5s	358.5	 of going for the food. I suggest not doing this during the initial training. If you want to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=364.4s	364.4	 the dog the distraction, pick it up and hand it to him. Good job. Here you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=372.8s	372.8	 Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=381.4s	381.4	 Here are some ideas for generalizing the behavior. Turn away from the distraction and come back to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=387.3s	387.3	 you. Walk past the distraction with you. Walk around the distraction with you and call your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=394.0s	394.0	 dog past the distraction to you. If you're going to be using this cue in the future at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=400.6s	400.6	 from your dog, I suggest practicing using a soft voice as well as a loud voice with your dog. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=406.9s	406.9	 I don't suggest being too loud right to begin with. First, get the behavior reliable and then start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=412.2s	412.2	 to increase the volume that you use the leave it cue. Most human beings naturally want to say things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=418.6s	418.6	 that mean don't do that in an intimidating tone of voice such as leave it or leave it like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=426.2s	426.2	 However, if you want to build the leave it cue to have a conditioned positive emotional response
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=432.3s	432.3	 in the animal, if you're using a cue like that that sounds intimidating to the animal, what can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=438.6s	438.6	 happen is that it's harder to build that positive emotional response than if you use a neutral tone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=444.9s	444.9	 of voice such as leave it or something like that. So I personally like to condition the leave it cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=453.1s	453.1	 to be conditioned with positive reinforcement so that I can then use the cue for dogs such as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=459.2s	459.2	 dogs that are fearful of people or reactive to people and then when you're cueing them leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=465.0s	465.0	 in a certain scenario they're not associating seeing that person with being intimidated and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=471.5s	471.5	 punished and then start to have a negative emotional response to the person or the other dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=477.8s	477.8	 You might have noticed that I haven't used any no reward markers such as saying no or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=483.5s	483.5	 when the dog looks at the distraction in order to train them to leave things and this is also because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=489.8s	489.8	 I want the leave it cue to have a positive emotional response in the animal and build on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=495.4s	495.4	 the animal's choice. So I'm reinforcing the behavior I do want rather than punishing the behavior that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=502.3s	502.3	 I don't want so I'm simply using something called differential reinforcement of an incompatible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=508.4s	508.4	 behavior. You're building the strong behavior of what you do want the dog to do so they're having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=513.4s	513.4	 a positive emotional response when doing it and if you start to add in too many punishers what can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=521.0s	521.0	 happen is the dog can feel conflicted about wanting to get the food and the cue can start to have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=528.0s	528.0	 punishing feeling to the dog so you might notice if you're saying no or that the dog's ears are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=534.2s	534.2	 going to go back and they might start acting submissively when they when they hear those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=539.7s	539.7	 punishers. I also just like to use purely positive reinforcement when training something like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=546.4s	546.4	 because if you notice that the behavior is starting to deteriorate such as the dog doesn't listen to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=552.6s	552.6	 the leave it cue you know the answer is that you haven't reinforced the behavior enough in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=558.5s	558.5	 situation so all you have to do is figure out a way to reduce criteria and reinforce the behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=565.1s	565.1	 to be stronger but when you mix in punishment it's hard to know if the dog is not finding the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=571.0s	571.0	 reinforcement reinforcing enough or that your punishers haven't been intense enough to have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=577.4s	577.4	 an effect so another reason I don't like to mix in punishers with training is I feel like it can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=584.3s	584.3	 reduce the reinforcement value of the food you have if punishment is also happening in the training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=591.1s	591.1	 scenario it starts to wash over the reinforcement value of what you have. I hope you found this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=597.0s	597.0	 video helpful for your training don't forget to like comment and subscribe to channel Kikopup to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=603.3s	603.3	 show your support you can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0hcRZEYSARs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=193&pp=iAQB&t=609.4s	609.4	 button see you later guys
