https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody! This video is for those of you who are training your own service dog for public access
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=6.2s	6.2	 and are struggling to come up with exercises to work on inside of the house for public access
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=12.3s	12.3	 because of this coronavirus pandemic. Now these exercises are actually very beneficial for all dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=19.5s	19.5	 because they involve confidence building as well as impulse control and teaching your dog to enjoy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=26.4s	26.4	 being calm and walking at your side even with distractions. So you're welcome to work on these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=32.0s	32.0	 inside of the house or in your yard with your dog just as a fun game to play with your dog but in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 no way does this video promote that you should use a fake service dog just so you can bring your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=46.7s	46.7	 into stores. That's not what this is about. This is about helping those who are training their own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=51.9s	51.9	 service dogs for their disabilities to have games that they can work on before they go into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=59.2s	59.2	 public. Now actually I would suggest working on these games even if there wasn't a coronavirus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=64.9s	64.9	 outbreak because it's a great idea to already build the skills and behaviors in your service dog before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=71.4s	71.4	 bringing them somewhere really public like a grocery store because if the dog is acting slightly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=77.4s	77.4	 untrained it can be a turn off to the customers or the employees so if it's a location that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=84.7s	84.7	 frequent often you want to go there only when you know your dog is going to show reliable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=89.9s	89.9	 behaviors inside the store. So a lot of this training can be done inside your house and you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=96.0s	96.0	 also work in parking lots and places where people aren't around to work on proofing the public access
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=103.0s	103.0	 behaviors that your dog might need in the circumstances that you have. I like to first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=109.0s	109.0	 begin the training by not having the dog on a leash just so it's easier to manage the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=113.9s	113.9	 and the clicker or maybe you're not using a clicker and you're using a verbal marker but you're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=118.5s	118.5	 something with your other hands. Are you ready? So I'm going to pretend that this puppy carriage is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=126.1s	126.1	 actually a shopping cart. You could also do the same with a rolling chair or just a normal chair
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=133.0s	133.0	 but it's easier to push a normal chair on slippery floor rather than carpet. Are you ready? So what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=139.5s	139.5	 I'm going to do in this exercise is teach him to stay at my side even though there's this weird cart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=145.4s	145.4	 in front of him. Now if your dog was worried about shopping carts or things like that it's actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=151.8s	151.8	 a great step to have something that's not as scary as a shopping cart and work with that first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=156.8s	156.8	 before then working with a clanking metal shopping cart. So one exercise you can do is just move the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=164.1s	164.1	 cart a little bit, mark and reinforce your dog for looking at it in a calm way. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=172.7s	172.7	 and just get your dog used to the movement of it at a distance. Good. When your dog is comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=179.5s	179.5	 with the cart I suggest having the cart turn away from the dog because if I go and I move the cart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 into the dog the dog might start to have an aversion of the cart. So I suggest having the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=193.0s	193.0	 on the left side and going in a clockwise direction or having the dog on the right side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 and going anti-clockwise because in that circumstance the cart is always moving away from the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=206.6s	206.6	 Good. So you might just take a tiny mini step forwards and you can mark your dog for moving into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=214.5s	214.5	 the position at your side and also for standing and staying in that position when you stop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=220.2s	220.2	 So you can take a step forwards click and reinforce your dog at your side. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=230.1s	230.1	 Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=231.8s	231.8	 Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 Because I have a border collie I don't want him to stare at the cart like it's a sheep.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=240.9s	240.9	 So what I'm doing is I'm holding treats in my left hand up here and I'm having him look up here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=247.7s	247.7	 at the treats and then I'm clicking and reinforcing him with the treat so he doesn't get any weird
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=252.8s	252.8	 excitement about staring at the cart but a non-herding breed most likely isn't going to do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=259.4s	259.4	 So once your dog is really comfortable with walking at your left side when you go in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=265.2s	265.2	 circle like this you can increase the duration of how long you go and you can start to add turns
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=272.6s	272.6	 in the opposite direction. Now it's important that your dog knows to stay at your side when you turn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=278.5s	278.5	 left so as you can see when I turn left like this he turns his butt in and I have a video on how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=285.4s	285.4	 train that in my Kekopup members program on heel work but basically you can check out the rear end
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=291.8s	291.8	 awareness exercise video on my YouTube channel and that shows you how you can teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 to keep their butt in when you turn left. Good job. Okay so now we're going to incorporate the cart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=304.3s	304.3	 now that he's turning his butt and you can see he backed away a little because he's a little unsure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=309.5s	309.5	 of objects moving at him so that's why we're working on this at home. So let's go ahead and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=315.1s	315.1	 go home. Are you ready? So we're going to do a tiny turn to the left so I'm going to move the cart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=322.1s	322.1	 a little bit. Good. Good. And I can revert back to using a hand gesture so that he knows what behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=332.7s	332.7	 is expected of him which is luring him with my left hand as we turn. Good job. Good job. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=342.4s	342.4	 going to turn again. If you have a verbal cue you can cue your dog to turn. Halo turn. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=352.6s	352.6	 Let's go. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=357.8s	357.8	 You can also work on backing up so I'm going to revert back to using my treat lure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=362.3s	362.3	 because he was a little bit nervous of the cart backing up into his face so I'm just going to move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=367.5s	367.5	 it back a little bit and lure him at the same time so he's learning that when the cart backs up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=373.4s	373.4	 he backs up but it's not because he's worried about the cart but just because it's a behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=378.0s	378.0	 to offer when the cart backs up. So first if you haven't worked on that you can practice without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=384.2s	384.2	 the cart first so that he's not learning a new behavior as a cart is like backing right into his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=389.5s	389.5	 face. Ready? Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=395.0s	395.0	 Good. When your dog is doing really well you can add duration then when you start working with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=401.3s	401.3	 different items as your shopping cart or a real shopping cart I suggest going right back to step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=407.4s	407.4	 one and working on just a tiny step forward and a tiny turn at first so you can do this in a car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=415.8s	415.8	 parking lot with a shopping cart while no one's watching and do dancing with your shopping cart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=421.5s	421.5	 and your dog. If you're doing that now make sure to sanitize the shopping cart before spending so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=427.3s	427.3	 much time touching it around your dog. Okay are you ready? So let's do some duration. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=434.9s	434.9	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=438.1s	438.1	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=440.7s	440.7	 Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=441.9s	441.9	 Come. Can you back up? Good. You're still a little bit worried. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=452.9s	452.9	 Awesome. Come forwards. Back up. Come forwards. Back. Good boy. Here we go. No treats this time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=465.5s	465.5	 Good boy. Awesome. Now you can practice using some obstacles like a chair or a coffee table
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=472.9s	472.9	 to simulate aisles, products or perhaps another person's cart that's parked and your dog's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=478.5s	478.5	 to need to go through a tight spot next to you while all these things are moving at the same time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=483.8s	483.8	 Are you ready? Let's go. Good boy. So I like practicing left turns like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=492.7s	492.7	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=496.9s	496.9	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=499.7s	499.7	 And then once the dog is getting it you can add duration but also practice stopping at the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=505.1s	505.1	 time as well as backing up. Good. Let's go. If you wanted you could practice also having your dog sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=516.6s	516.6	 If you wanted you could practice also having your dog sit. Good job. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=527.4s	527.4	 And lay down. Are you ready? Halo down. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=536.3s	536.3	 Ready? Let's go. Good job. Awesome. Another exercise you can practice is loading your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=545.6s	545.6	 shopping cart from different shelves, chairs or tables and teaching your dog a default leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=551.4s	551.4	 when you go to reach for things because they really mean nothing and the important thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=556.1s	556.1	 is doing the behavior of a calm settle or standing calmly next to you. So if your dog is having trouble
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=563.6s	563.6	 not looking every time you touch things which could then lead to going to sniff the items you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=569.4s	569.4	 could use your leave it cue or an attention noise to teach the dog the behavior you want of not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=575.7s	575.7	 fixating on whatever you're holding. So I'm going to make my attention noise, click him for looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=582.9s	582.9	 and then I'm going to make my attention noise and reach my hand out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=589.9s	589.9	 Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=593.5s	593.5	 And if your dog keeps looking you want to do a smaller gesture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=597.0s	597.0	 like this and work on the attention looking at you for duration before you try to add distractions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=609.4s	609.4	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=616.2s	616.2	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=617.0s	617.0	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=621.0s	621.0	 Good boy. Awesome. Now on the sit. Ready? Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=631.1s	631.1	 Good. This is actually an exercise from my manners membership on my website dogmantics.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=639.0s	639.0	 but I'm going to quickly show you. You can work on a leave it from things on a counter like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 So a leave it obstacle course on different levels. So these are on a coffee table, leave it or a chair
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=652.6s	652.6	 and then you're going to walk your dog past the treats just as you did before when there were no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=657.9s	657.9	 treats. So at first you might want to have them in containers so if your dog were to go and try and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=663.4s	663.4	 get one of the treats they wouldn't just get reinforced for taking treats off the chair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=668.1s	668.1	 Okay I'm running out of treats at this rate. Okay so take a mini step forwards, click and treat the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=675.3s	675.3	 dog for ignoring the treat and at first you can use your leave it cue but you want it to become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=681.6s	681.6	 a situational cue that if there's food on the counters or on the coffee table you don't have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=687.6s	687.6	 to say leave it every time you pass something that is enticing to your dog. Good boy. Leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=697.5s	697.5	 Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=709.0s	709.0	 You can also practice reaching for it and picking up whatever it is that's the distraction on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=714.2s	714.2	 chair or the coffee table. Leave it. So at first you can use your cue leave it but then you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=720.2s	720.2	 to get to the point where it's a default leave it so when you reach out your hand your dog doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=725.4s	725.4	 think that it means look at the hand or look at what it's going to go to pick up. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=747.5s	747.5	 I hope you found this video helpful for training your service dog. If you'd like to support my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=752.1s	752.1	 work don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCNcq7KYANc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=203&pp=iAQB&t=757.8s	757.8	 member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button. See you later guys!
