https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! This video is on one of the reasons that newbie trainers and newbie owners fail when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=6.5s	6.5	 attempting to use food and toys to train their dog. Now, it's all about the concept of movement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=13.6s	13.6	 When you're trying to get your dog to like being around someone or something, you don't move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=20.5s	20.5	 whatever it is into their space. The way to get your dog to like toys, to like treats, to like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=27.3s	27.3	 strangers, to like other dogs, and water, is to not bring drag the dog to whatever it is or bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=35.8s	35.8	 whatever it is towards the dog. Because what often happens is that this turns the dog off of finding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=43.6s	43.6	 whatever it is reinforcing. And this is oftentimes done with teaching a dog to play with toys. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 he doesn't know what this is. It's leftover from Christmas. It had some wrapping paper on it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=57.3s	57.3	 but I've already worked with my dogs with toys and treats. But if I take this object and I try to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=62.7s	62.7	 him to interact with it by pushing it into his face, that's not going to work. And if he had it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=70.0s	70.0	 and instead of getting him to fetch it to me, I kept running after him, that's not going to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=75.3s	75.3	 him to want to play with me and the object. That's going to put him off wanting to bring the object to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=80.8s	80.8	 me if I keep running over. But if you move the object away from the dog, and you move away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=88.0s	88.0	 the dog, that builds the dog's interest in whatever you have. Hey, kitty, you want that? Yeah, you do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 Hoo hoo, you do. Oh boy. So now that he has it, if I come running over and I'm trying to interact with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 him, what I'm going to teach him is to run away from me. So instead, when he has the object,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=110.3s	110.3	 I'm going to move away from him and encourage him to move towards me with it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 So I feel really bad about pushing it in his face, but I wanted to show you exactly what it looks like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 and how you can really turn dogs off from toys and treats by moving them towards the dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=139.2s	139.2	 We domesticated dogs, but they still have hunting instincts and they naturally want to move towards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=145.4s	145.4	 things that move away from them like that. However, a lot of times when people start using food and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=152.0s	152.0	 toys, they try to get the dog interested in the food by putting the food into the dog's face and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=157.8s	157.8	 just feeding them lots of treats like this. And what can happen is if the dog isn't that interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=163.5s	163.5	 in the food, it can even lower their interest in the food. So the best way to build your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=169.0s	169.0	 interest in food and toys is to initiate the training by the food or toy moving away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=175.9s	175.9	 the dog to gain their interest in whatever you have. Good, good. Ready, go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 You want that, but we're working with treats. Ready, go get it. Ready to go. Are you ready? Go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=198.2s	198.2	 Ready, go get it. Good job. Conversely, if your dog is too excited by food or toys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=206.3s	206.3	 playing these type of games is going to make your dog even more excited. So you can actually use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=211.7s	211.7	 the other technique to your advantage. So if you wanted your dog to be not as excited by food or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=218.0s	218.0	 toys, you could calmly move the food towards the dog as the treat delivery or calmly put the toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=225.3s	225.3	 on the ground and then the dog gets the toy without having to approach it. Here's an example of using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=232.2s	232.2	 a toy. You're moving the toy away from the dog to get them excited about following the toy. Get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=239.3s	239.3	 And then if you wanted your dog to be less excited by the toy, then the toy can move less. Are you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=245.0s	245.0	 ready? Drop. So I'm going to put the toy slowly down here like that and then say get it. Good boy. Drop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=261.9s	261.9	 Get it. Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=264.3s	264.3	 Drop. Get it. Drop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=275.9s	275.9	 Get it. Drop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=281.8s	281.8	 Get it. Drop. Go around. Get it. Drop. Go circle. Get it. Oh yeah. Drop. Twirl. Get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=289.8s	289.8	 Drop. Twirl. Get it. This is a microphone and as you see if I walk away from Halo with the microphone,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=296.8s	296.8	 he follows me. But if I move the microphone at him,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=305.7s	305.7	 he starts to have an aversion to it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=310.2s	310.2	 So if I was trying to teach him to like something like having his nails clipped,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=314.9s	314.9	 oh I'm sorry, come here, and I started by just moving the object towards him, he might actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=323.1s	323.1	 start to dislike the object even more because it's coming straight at him. So if you want a dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=329.0s	329.0	 like objects as well as people and other dogs, you don't want the object, the person, or the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=335.5s	335.5	 moving into their space as the first way to teach the dog to like being around these objects, people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=342.1s	342.1	 or other dogs. Instead, it's better to teach the dog to like the object, person, or other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=349.3s	349.3	 by following the other person or dog and moving towards them and being reinforced for that movement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=356.0s	356.0	 towards the object or whatever it is. So instead of pushing this microphone at Halo to get him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=363.0s	363.0	 to like it, so perhaps a trainer would show the object, click, and then feed a treat, instead you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=369.4s	369.4	 can move away with the object, Halo free, and click the dog for following it. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=380.0s	380.0	 Good job. He said don't feed me with the microphone hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=390.2s	390.2	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=394.3s	394.3	 Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=394.8s	394.8	 Touch. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=405.5s	405.5	 Touch. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=409.5s	409.5	 Here you can see I'm working with Penny, a recently adopted dog, on building her confidence when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=415.1s	415.1	 guests come over. Instead of entering her house and trying to build a relationship by moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=420.1s	420.1	 towards her, I am meeting outside on the street and reinforcing her for following me and building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=426.7s	426.7	 her motivation to want to move towards me. You can see that she doesn't look shy at all. In fact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=432.5s	432.5	 she's pulling on leash and wagging her tail trying to get to me. When I go into Penny's house,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=438.6s	438.6	 I'm going in before her, not as any sort of dominance game, but because she's following
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=443.9s	443.9	 my movement and is motivated to come towards me, rather than her being inside her house and me as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=451.1s	451.1	 a guest coming into her space. Then after Penny had time to settle on her mat, her owner could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=459.0s	459.0	 give her permission to come and sniff me and then recall her away and keep it a short and positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=465.3s	465.3	 experience. Halo here had a negative experience where someone wanted him to sniff their hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=473.7s	473.7	 and Halo got weirded out because suddenly this person just stuck the back of their hand in his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=479.0s	479.0	 face and he was like, whoa, I don't like that. So to teach him to like what humans do, where they do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=486.4s	486.4	 that in his face, I would have people hold their hand out from a distance and he could approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=493.5s	493.5	 and touch their hand as a trick instead of the person coming into their space as the first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=499.5s	499.5	 part of the training plan. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=504.9s	504.9	 Touch. Good. Ready? Go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=510.7s	510.7	 Awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=517.3s	517.3	 Good. Then when he was comfortable with approaching the hand like this, then I could start to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=524.7s	524.7	 where I would do the gesture in front of him and move into his space and you can see that he's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=530.4s	530.4	 at all bothered by it like he was with the microphone. In fact, he wants to do a trick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=535.5s	535.5	 where he waves at me. Go get your cheeks right there. Another great exercise is teaching the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=540.6s	540.6	 chin rest where the dog comes and puts their chin in your hand like that. So first the dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=546.7s	546.7	 approaching you and putting the chin in your hand and then you can start to have the dog in front of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=552.7s	552.7	 you where you reach and put your hand under their chin. Good. A lot of people want their dogs to love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=562.2s	562.2	 water. They want to take their dog swimming. They want to give their dog baths, but the technique
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=567.5s	567.5	 that most people use is moving the dog towards the water like at the beach or at a lake or the bathtub
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=574.6s	574.6	 or moving the water toward the dog like using a hose and spraying the dog with it. Now there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=581.5s	581.5	 some dogs that just love water and after a little bit of time they say, yay, this is fun, but for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=587.2s	587.2	 lot of dogs when they're moved towards water or the water is moved towards them they become extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=593.9s	593.9	 unhappy and start to have an aversion to the water, to taking baths, to playing in the water, or going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=599.9s	599.9	 near the ocean or a lake. So one way you can build your dog's interest in water is playing keep away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=606.5s	606.5	 games or you have a hose and you're moving the spray of the hose away from the dog. The dog can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=613.6s	613.6	 then experiment with biting at the water and getting near it and following it and getting a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=619.1s	619.1	 bit wet as the water moves away and then when the dog starts to really enjoy games like that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=625.5s	625.5	 gradually spray the dog a tiny little millisecond and then move the water away and then spray the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=631.8s	631.8	 dog a little bit and then move the water away so the dog is learning that when he gets a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=636.4s	636.4	 bit sprayed it then means he gets to play a chase with the water. Now you want to take care of course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=642.5s	642.5	 that if you have a dog that's drinking the water while they bite at it that you want to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=647.5s	647.5	 that your dog doesn't drink too much water if your dog is very excited about playing in water or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=653.9s	653.9	 playing with the hose. So you want to be careful with that. Another thing is if you did play this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=659.5s	659.5	 game with the hose you want to make sure the dog is not going to bite at the tip of the hose unless
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=665.3s	665.3	 you put something like a pool noodle over it so that he doesn't break one of his teeth if he were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=670.7s	670.7	 to bite the metal part of the hose. Some people comment on my videos saying hey why don't you use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=677.3s	677.3	 an untrained dog for once or that dog doesn't have that issue because he looked happy and friendly the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=684.3s	684.3	 whole video and the reason is is that the training is broken up into small achievable steps where the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=691.6s	691.6	 dog is successful hopefully every step of the way feeling confident and not conflicted and having a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=698.3s	698.3	 positive emotional response to the training so the dog is going to look trained every step of the way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=704.7s	704.7	 unless you make a mistake. So if you raise criteria too quickly the dog might have a little bit of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=710.8s	710.8	 regression to his previous behavior but it's not going to look anything like it used to look in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=716.7s	716.7	 past so trainers like me we don't want the dog to ever rehearse the behavior they did in the past
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=724.6s	724.6	 because it's going to make them more likely to do it in the future so it's a little bit disappointing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=729.7s	729.7	 because the footage is just not as exciting as showing a stressed out fearful dog or a dog that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=736.5s	736.5	 guarding and reacting but it's in the dog's best interest not to do this and in the best interest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=743.5s	743.5	 of their training plan so I feel pretty bad that I did something that I don't do and I don't think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=751.9s	751.9	 is a good idea to do and it's just not fair on the dog which was showing what not to do with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=757.5s	757.5	 microphone with halo where I was moving it into his space in fact the footage was so hard for me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=763.7s	763.7	 to watch because you could see how quickly I was turning something into an aversive thing that he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=771.2s	771.2	 found punishing and that's just not necessary in my training this really brings up an extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=777.8s	777.8	 important point that things aren't intrinsically reinforcing or punishing to dogs they can quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=784.2s	784.2	 turn from one to the other and one of the biggest ways that that can happen as you saw is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=790.2s	790.2	 trainer's movement a trainer can make an amazing training plan and it can look great on paper but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=797.9s	797.9	 as soon as they're doing the training plan something about their movement can cause the dog to have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=804.1s	804.1	 opposite response to what they hoped the dog would have and so it's extremely important as a trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=810.7s	810.7	 and if you want to know more about your dog and how to train to understand the dog's body language
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=816.9s	816.9	 so I actually have a video about reading your dog's body language in training sessions and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=822.7s	822.7	 I'll link that in the description below I hope you enjoyed this video I hope it was helpful for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=828.3s	828.3	 your training don't forget to like comment and subscribe to channel Kikopup you can also become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_5jkgmyurI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=209&pp=iAQB&t=834.4s	834.4	 a supporting member of this channel by clicking the join button see you later guys
