https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody! Today I'm going to be talking about how trainers who don't use any forms of physical or psychological
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=6.5s	6.5	 intimidation work with issues such as fear,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=9.6s	9.6	 reactivity, aggression, and over arousal in dogs. Now in most cultures
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=14.7s	14.7	 it's commonly accepted that if there is an undesirable behavior, the best way to get rid of it is to punish it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 However, this doesn't really teach the animal what they should do in that situation and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=26.7s	26.7	 if the behavior is the side effect of an emotional state, if that emotional state isn't addressed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=33.1s	33.1	 sometimes other behaviors will take the place of the behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=36.7s	36.7	 that's been punished that are related to the way the animal is feeling. So for example, if an animal was extremely frightened and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=44.5s	44.5	 that wasn't addressed and the behavior that they exhibited when they were frightened such as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 growling was punished, then there might be other behaviors that are related to fear that crop up in the place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 where growling previously occurred. The undesirable behaviors can also be caused by something else
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 that's happening in the animal's life. Here's a human example. There's a person that's stressed at work,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=68.5s	68.5	 maybe they're not getting enough sleep at night, or maybe they got in a little car accident and now they're chronically stressed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=75.0s	75.0	 so they start to jump at little noises and it keeps getting worse and worse.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=79.8s	79.8	 So when the toaster pops they go like that every time and overreact and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=85.7s	85.7	 normally if this was a dog's behavior people would quickly turn to saying,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=90.9s	90.9	 oh the dog's reacting to something in the environment, let's punish that behavior to make it go away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=97.1s	97.1	 However, when you think of it in terms of a human jumping at a toaster, you wouldn't quickly turn to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 startling the person or causing pain to the person to get them to stop jumping at the toaster.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 Instead you could create a behavior modification plan for this person to reduce the stress in their everyday life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=116.5s	116.5	 so they're no longer chronically stressed and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=119.6s	119.6	 overreacting to things that they shouldn't. If the problem didn't go away and they were still jumping at things,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=125.2s	125.2	 they could then use counter conditioning and desensitization
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=128.7s	128.7	 by letting the person know that the toaster is just about to pop and having it pop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=134.4s	134.4	 while the person is prepared for it to happen and then perhaps making the person a cup of tea afterwards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=139.9s	139.9	 or habituating the person to it by constantly having the toaster pop and then creating time in between when the toaster pops.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=147.7s	147.7	 However, sometimes by simply just reducing the stress in the person's life all those problems of jumping at noises and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=156.9s	156.9	 overreacting to being touched all go away. Now I'm going to talk about some similar examples, but in a dog's world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=163.7s	163.7	 Perhaps there's a dog that's in pain,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=165.8s	165.8	 maybe he has back pain or hip pain that the owner might not even know about and at night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=171.1s	171.1	 he's just not getting enough sleep that he should be getting because of the pain.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 He could also be at a daycare where it looks like he's having a marvelous time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=180.0s	180.0	 but perhaps he's over excited the whole day and he's just not thinking to get the amount of sleep that he needs to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 Or perhaps the dog has anxiety about being left alone and gets left alone eight hours every day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=192.5s	192.5	 where the dog is worrying the whole time that the owner is outside of the house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=196.6s	196.6	 And in all these cases what could be happening is that the dog is getting chronically stressed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=202.0s	202.0	 and it starts to show when the dog starts to react to things that he never reacted to or starts to overreact.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=209.6s	209.6	 For example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=210.5s	210.5	 maybe a dog inside the house that has been anxious about their owner coming home then out on a walk starts jumping at noises and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=219.4s	219.4	 jumping when they see people coming down the street and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=222.5s	222.5	 for dogs jumping might include lunging and barking because that's what dogs do when they're startled.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=228.8s	228.8	 When they startle a lot of dogs will bark and lunge at whatever it is that startled them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=234.6s	234.6	 So as you can see if someone was trying to solve a behavior problem of a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=240.1s	240.1	 lunging and barking at people or dogs on the street and the dog is chronically stressed because of an issue with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=247.5s	247.5	 separation anxiety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 just punishing the side effect that was caused by the separation anxiety problem and the chronic stress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=256.2s	256.2	 you can see that other behavior problems might pop up and replace that reactive barking behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=264.2s	264.2	 that the dog was exhibiting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=266.8s	266.8	 In my type of training the real method of solving the lunging and barking problem is to look at the animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=274.6s	274.6	 everyday life and see if there's something that's causing the dog to overreact to things in the environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=281.7s	281.7	 Regarding the human example where the person was in a small car crash or maybe even a big car crash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=286.9s	286.9	 some people's behavior might not be affected by that while other people might start sensitizing to noises and being touched on the shoulder
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=295.1s	295.1	 for example and dogs are very similar.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=297.7s	297.7	 So for me I like to consider when a dog's walking down the street and another dog charges them from behind a fence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=305.0s	305.0	 some dogs don't get affected by that and they continue on with their lives
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=309.1s	309.1	 their happy-go-lucky lives and other dogs can be affected by it in the same way as a small car crash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=315.9s	315.9	 The dog experiences this very startling and sometimes even traumatic event
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=321.5s	321.5	 they don't know that the other dog is behind a fence and they see a dog that's charging and barking at them and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=327.6s	327.6	 throwing all the warning signs that they're about to be attacked and then screech to a halt at a fence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=334.4s	334.4	 Now just one dog doing that can cause a dog to start to be hyper vigilant of their environment on a walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=340.8s	340.8	 and if every walk turns into an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=344.1s	344.1	 experience where the dog is looking over their shoulder for something terrible to happen the dog can start to become chronically stressed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=351.0s	351.0	 When an animal is overreacting to stimuli in the environment or perhaps even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=356.6s	356.6	 sensitizing meaning their reactions are becoming more and more intense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 those moments are probably not the moments that will be the most beneficial to train the animal because the animal most likely is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=368.6s	368.6	 over-threshold. For example, they're exhibiting signs of fear,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=373.1s	373.1	 reactivity, aggression or overexcitement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=376.7s	376.7	 Even compulsion trainers who use punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=380.0s	380.0	 understand that an animal is not going to experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=383.5s	383.5	 pain and startle in the same way when they're over threshold. For example, if a dog was chasing a deer and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=391.3s	391.3	 somebody slapped a shock collar on the dog, the dog most likely without any training is going to keep chasing the deer and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=398.7s	398.7	 not even notice that he's getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=401.5s	401.5	 electrocuted in his neck and the same is true for using positive reinforcement,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=406.5s	406.5	 counter conditioning and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=408.2s	408.2	 desensitization is that if you try to train the animal when they're experiencing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=413.6s	413.6	 extreme fear, anxiety and are reacting already, you're not going to create the most efficient training plan.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=421.3s	421.3	 So the real key to awesome training is to create a training plan where you're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=428.0s	428.0	 sending the animal over threshold to rehearse the behaviors that you find undesirable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=433.0s	433.0	 and this really means that you need to use management and prevention if you want to change your animal's behavior and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=441.6s	441.6	 set up training sessions in a way that your animal isn't feeling those emotions that are going to send them over the top.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=449.0s	449.0	 For example, fear, anxiety or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=453.0s	453.0	 anger and aggression. When working on a dog's behavior problems using positive reinforcement in conjunction with counter conditioning and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=461.2s	461.2	 desensitization, the goal is on teaching the dog what you do want him to do in the situations that he's been offering the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=468.6s	468.6	 undesirable behavior and potentially behaviors that are unhealthy for him. The goal also is to change the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=475.9s	475.9	 emotional response when in these situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=478.6s	478.6	 because if you simply teach your dog to sit but he's still scared of something then other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=484.5s	484.5	 undesirable behaviors might crop up in the future.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=487.6s	487.6	 So the real goal with this type of training is that you're creating a dog that's calm and confident and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=495.2s	495.2	 relaxed around the stimuli that was previously making the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=500.4s	500.4	 overexcited, fearful or aggressive. So that is why you might notice that the same behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=507.6s	507.6	 modification plans are used for a dog that is scared of someone, a dog that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=513.1s	513.1	 really excited and happy and wants to see the person or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=516.6s	516.6	 that the dog wants to bite the person. You're using the same plan because the end goal is the same. You want a calm,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=524.3s	524.3	 confident dog that is offering the friendly social behavior or you want the dog to simply ignore
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 whatever it is in the environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=533.7s	533.7	 The key to successful training is being able to control the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=537.6s	537.6	 environment and the things that your dog reacts to as well as being able to read your dog and know when to lower and raise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=545.4s	545.4	 criteria in a training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=547.4s	547.4	 Now some dogs can go out and about and you can change their emotional response and train them new behaviors,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=554.4s	554.4	 appropriate behaviors to do when out and about at a park or on a walk when they see their triggers that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=560.6s	560.6	 potentially make them react. But for other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=564.2s	564.2	 this is just too much of a first step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=567.5s	567.5	 When you go out and about with a dog and you try to change their emotional response when they're feeling anxious about being out on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=574.2s	574.2	 walk or they had the separation anxiety problem and they're all stressed out from that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=579.8s	579.8	 chronically stressed and you're trying to modify their behavior on the street where they're hyper vigilant and looking for other dogs to bark at,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=586.9s	586.9	 that's simply not going to work and it's extremely beneficial to create training setups where you manage the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=594.8s	594.8	 environment in between training, keeping your dog under threshold and then set up training setups where things progress in small,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=602.6s	602.6	 easy steps for the dog where the dog is learning not to react in the way that they previously did and to feel calm and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=610.4s	610.4	 relaxed and ignore whatever's in the environment or act friendly and social towards it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=615.4s	615.4	 I wrote a protocol for emotional and behavioral modification and I'll put a link to that in the description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=621.5s	621.5	 so you can find out more about it. In this coming year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=624.5s	624.5	 I plan to make more videos with different types of dogs of different types of breeds to show you how to use the protocol.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=631.8s	631.8	 A question that I frequently get asked is don't you need to be able to see the dog's problem behavior first in order to solve it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=638.8s	638.8	 And the answer is no,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=640.7s	640.7	 I don't want to see the dog's problem behavior because I don't want them rehearsing that behavior again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=646.2s	646.2	 just so I have the pleasure of seeing the dog over their threshold.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=650.5s	650.5	 Instead what happens with this type of training is that you find out about the problem as you progress through your training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=658.9s	658.9	 So if you were doing a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=660.9s	660.9	 counter-conditioning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=661.9s	661.9	 exercise where you're working with a dog who you know the owner has said that the dog lunges and barks at people or dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=669.5s	669.5	 you start out with the easiest step and their ability to progress to the next level of criteria,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=676.2s	676.2	 how fast they can do it and when you present different stimuli and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=681.3s	681.3	 different situations to the dog and how well they cope, you find out what issues the dog is having.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=688.0s	688.0	 But you don't find out about them by the dog suddenly lunging and barking at the person, you find out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=693.9s	693.9	 maybe when the dog suddenly can't look back to get his treat or the dog starts to stare at the person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=701.8s	701.8	 for two seconds, then you would lower criteria.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=705.2s	705.2	 So you can progress through training without ever actually seeing the previous behavior that the dog used to do and focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=714.2s	714.2	 only seeing the behaviors you want the dog to do. Of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=717.8s	717.8	 we all try to achieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=720.5s	720.5	 errorless learning in our training where we're setting the dog up for success, but every once in a while the dog will regress and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=727.9s	727.9	 when training is done correctly, it will be very mild.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=731.1s	731.1	 So maybe the dog might woof once at the person where in the past it was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=736.6s	736.6	 extreme lunging and barking with hair raised, dilated pupils and foaming at the mouth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=741.6s	741.6	 But in the training session,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=743.1s	743.1	 it might just look like a little woof or that the dog just suddenly stands up when they were in a calm settle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=750.5s	750.5	 So that's how we find out about what previously used to happen in the past.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=754.9s	754.9	 I hope you found this video helpful for your training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=758.2s	758.2	 Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to channel Kikopup.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wghJ7xFotqY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=210&pp=iAQB&t=762.0s	762.0	 You can also become a supporting member of this channel by clicking the join button. See you later guys. Bye!
