https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody, I frequently hear people say positive reinforcement didn't work or positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=7.1s	7.1	 didn't work in this situation and that's kind of the same as saying gravity doesn't work and the reason being is that the term
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=15.5s	15.5	 positive reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=17.1s	17.1	 simply means that something was added that increased the animal's behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=22.1s	22.1	 So if your desired behavior didn't increase in your animal, it means that you didn't actually use positive reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=30.1s	30.1	 And so I'm going to explain this in this video because it's extremely important to understand that it is the animal's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=37.8s	37.8	 brain that decides what is reinforcing and not the trainer and a lot of people have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=43.5s	43.5	 misconception that just because you're using treats or toys or access to the environment that you're using positive reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=51.0s	51.0	 But this is simply not true.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 Reinforcers and punishers are subjective and they change depending on the situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 The way that you can condition reinforcers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=61.5s	61.5	 mirrors the way that you can condition punishers and you can turn a reinforcer into a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 Punisher or a Punisher into a reinforcer. An example of this being that you might love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 strawberries and you might love your partner feeding you a strawberry into your mouth in your own home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=78.6s	78.6	 But if you're walking down a dark alley and some weird person jumps out of the shadows and then tries to feed you a strawberry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=85.8s	85.8	 Most likely that's going to be a Punisher and you'll probably never walk down that dark alley again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 Now this happens frequently in dog training where the trainer is assuming what they're doing or what they're using is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=99.9s	99.9	 Reinforcer but in the animal's mind, it's either neutral or it could possibly even be punishing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=107.0s	107.0	 So I'm going to give you some examples why this happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=111.2s	111.2	 The first example is that the dog is too aroused for the reinforcers to be effective. Perhaps the dog is anxious,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 scared or over excited about something in the environment and even though the dog is taking treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=123.9s	123.9	 It could be that it's like the dog is watching an action movie eating popcorn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=129.0s	129.0	 Sometimes when you're watching TV and you're eating popcorn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=131.7s	131.7	 You forget that you're eating and you might eat the whole bowl of popcorn without even noticing it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=136.6s	136.6	 So I believe this can happen with dogs and training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=139.6s	139.6	 They're so excited that the treats that you're using aren't actually acting as reinforcers because the dog is just too excited,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=148.8s	148.8	 scared or anxious.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=150.7s	150.7	 The solution to this is breaking your training up into small achievable steps where the dog isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=157.1s	157.1	 overexcited, fearful or anxious during the training process.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=161.0s	161.0	 Other reasons that reinforcers might lose their effectiveness is if the dog is feeling sick or the dog is in pain or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 if the dog is full. Now frequently I see people, they're very excited about using positive reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=175.7s	175.7	 So they're giving their puppy treat after treat after treat in the environment and what I see is a puppy that's saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=181.7s	181.7	 Please stop feeding me food. I am full. I am done with the treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 All I want to do is get away from you and explore the environment or see that dog over there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=191.3s	191.3	 So sometimes when you use too many treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=194.0s	194.0	 you can actually shoot yourself in the foot and teach your dog to not enjoy eating treats when out and about.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=200.8s	200.8	 So you want to be really careful with that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=203.5s	203.5	 Another reason that reinforcers can lose their effectiveness is if punishment is added into the same training scenarios either
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=210.7s	210.7	 intentionally or unintentionally. I hope you found this video helpful for your training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZogNFdSBlzw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=212&pp=iAQB&t=215.4s	215.4	 Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to channel Kikopup. See you later guys.
