https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone, this video is on the topic of separation training for young puppies and adult dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=6.1s	6.1	 Now the way that I like to approach separation training is teaching the dog what I do want him to do when being left alone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=14.5s	14.5	 and leave very little room for error or variation of their behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=19.0s	19.0	 So the way that I'm going to approach it is to teach the dog to think to go and settle and take a nap in his bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=26.7s	26.7	 You can also, along with this training, teach your dog to play with toys on his own and chew on bones on his own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=33.9s	33.9	 and then in the pen that you leave your dog you can leave bones and chews so they can have a choice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=40.1s	40.1	 of whether they want to take a nap or play with their toys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=43.5s	43.5	 But with the initial training I like to focus on teaching the dog that when he's having time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 separated from you it's time to relax and take a nap.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=53.1s	53.1	 This training plan of teaching the dog exactly what you do want him to do leaves little room for error
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=61.5s	61.5	 and will make the dog less likely to vocalize, use his bed as a chew toy, learn to put his feet up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=67.2s	67.2	 or try to dig and bite at the enclosure. All of these are natural behaviors a dog might offer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=73.0s	73.0	 without any training when being put behind a barrier. Oftentimes trainers will simply put a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=78.5s	78.5	 dog in a pen and suggest ignoring the behaviors you dislike. However, this can cause an extinction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=84.3s	84.3	 burst where the dog can become frustrated, the behaviors can become more intense, and the dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=89.6s	89.6	 behavior and emotions can begin to vary. This is not the best plan to teach a dog to be calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=96.3s	96.3	 and enjoy being left alone. The best plan is reinforcing the behaviors you do want your dog to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=109.3s	109.3	 By reinforcing a settle and calmness around food first it will make it easier for the dog to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 calm and relaxed during the separation training. It will make it easier to add duration as well as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=120.9s	120.9	 your movement away from the dog. Without prior training the dog might be excited, confused, or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=126.7s	126.7	 frustrated by receiving a piece of food from someone who then walks off with the food while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 he's behind a barrier. To train the settle and calmness around food, wear your treat bag around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=139.5s	139.5	 the house or have treats in jars in different rooms and when you see your dog relax and settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=146.4s	146.4	 on the floor not thinking about the food, calmly walk over and drop a treat between your dog's paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=153.2s	153.2	 or use a calm marker like good and then deliver the treat slowly to the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=159.9s	159.9	 It might take a couple of days before your dog can truly relax around the food on the counters
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=165.3s	165.3	 and the food in your bait bag, but if your dog is having trouble with this you can use low value
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=171.1s	171.1	 treats at first to do this training. You want to get to the point where you can drop a treat for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=177.9s	177.9	 your dog between his paws and move away and your dog doesn't think to pop up and follow you. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=184.4s	184.4	 also want to make sure that your dog looks relaxed, that his muscles are relaxed, and that he has a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=189.7s	189.7	 soft expression on his face. Step two, teach the dog to go to his bed and go in his crate. By
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=199.1s	199.1	 teaching and reinforcing your dog for going to his bed, this will make the bed a visual cue for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=204.3s	204.3	 dog to move toward and relax on when left alone in the future. You can work on teaching the dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=211.3s	211.3	 go to his bed and go in his crate as you work on step one by practicing them at different times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=217.2s	217.2	 during the day. Check out the written description below for full tutorials on how to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=223.5s	223.5	 to go to his bed as well as how to teach your dog to go in his crate. I suggest first working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=229.5s	229.5	 teaching your dog to go to his bed and then putting the bed inside the crate. To create clarity,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 I suggest having a cue to tell your dog to go into the crate as well as a cue to tell your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=242.3s	242.3	 dog when it's time to come out of the crate. All done! Good boy! Step three, add duration while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=252.3s	252.3	 next to the pen or crate. Now you can practice the settle in the bed while inside the pen or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=258.3s	258.3	 crate. If you have a pen like this one, you can sit in the pen with your dog if you have a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=263.6s	263.6	 that you think might whine if you're on the outside of the pen and work on the duration of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=269.1s	269.1	 the settle in the bed while in the pen. Now you can use a book or a phone to entertain yourself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=276.0s	276.0	 and when you see your dog looking relaxed and all sleepy you can mark by saying good and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=283.6s	283.6	 reinforce with a treat or simply calmly move and feed your dog a treat and the slower you move your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=290.6s	290.6	 hand the calmer he's going to be rather than if I say good here you go boy yeah good job nice settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=298.8s	298.8	 good job sorry halo. You can practice this exercise while in the living room watching tv
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=306.7s	306.7	 or working on your computer. If you have a puppy that whines or barks or panics when you walk away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=314.0s	314.0	 from them while they're in a pen, I suggest setting up the pen and sitting next to the pen just out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=319.3s	319.3	 of reach so they can't bite you or mouth at your clothing through the pen and then when you see your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=325.2s	325.2	 puppy settle you can reinforce your puppy by either slowly dropping a treat between their paws
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=332.2s	332.2	 or dropping it from above but it's a lot calmer if you go very slowly like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=339.1s	339.1	 Step four add movement away from the enclosure. By reinforcing the dog for relaxing behind the barrier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=346.6s	346.6	 when you move around the room it will help teach him the concept of relaxing when something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=351.2s	351.2	 stimulating is going on that he can't reach. This is a great exercise for all dogs especially those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=357.2s	357.2	 that can get easily aroused or frustrated when they cannot reach what they want to interact with.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=362.7s	362.7	 This step will also help teach a dog to relax when you walk out a door and he cannot come with you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=368.5s	368.5	 At first move slowly and calmly while near the pen or crate and mark and reinforce your dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=377.1s	377.1	 relaxing on his bed. You can use a clicker for this exercise if your dog remains calm when hearing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=383.9s	383.9	 the clicker but if it excites your dog I suggest using a calm marker word like good before then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=391.3s	391.3	 moving slowly to drop a treat between your dog's paws. You can practice moving around the room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=397.8s	397.8	 sitting on different pieces of furniture, talking to family members, interacting with different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=403.5s	403.5	 objects in the room and then returning to reinforce your dog. Every once in a while you can go and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=409.9s	409.9	 stand next to the crate and release your dog calmly from the crate. I don't suggest releasing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=416.3s	416.3	 your dog from the crate when you're at a distance and that you always release your dog from the crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=421.7s	421.7	 when you're standing right next to it in a very neutral boring manner.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=429.6s	429.6	 What to do if your dog gets up or starts to do a behavior that you don't want him to?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=435.4s	435.4	 I suggest that if you're doing a training session and your dog gets up and puts his paws up on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=440.5s	440.5	 barrier or starts whining and barking I don't suggest that you should assume that if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=446.1s	446.1	 ignore the dog that they'll stop doing it and think to relax and be calm in their pen. Instead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=452.7s	452.7	 I would quickly interrupt that behavior and then lower criteria so that it's easier for the dog and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=459.0s	459.0	 that the dog doesn't start to think to start offering those behaviors when he doesn't know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=463.9s	463.9	 what to do. Another problem with ignoring unwanted behavior and then reinforcing the behavior you do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=470.3s	470.3	 want is that you can sometimes create a behavior chain where the dog first offers the behavior you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=475.8s	475.8	 don't like before they offer the behavior that you do want. If your dog gets up to follow you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=482.7s	482.7	 and he doesn't yet know to offer the behavior of going back in the crate you can lure your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=488.2s	488.2	 into the down position and then drastically reduce criteria. So if you took 20 steps away from your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=494.3s	494.3	 dog and that made him get up just take a couple of steps away from your dog and reinforce your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=499.7s	499.7	 to get him back to the point where he's feeling comfortable and relaxed being in the crate while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=504.6s	504.6	 you move away. Another technique you can use if the dog gets out of the crate to follow you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=509.5s	509.5	 is to stand or sit next to the crate and see if the dog offers going back inside the crate to begin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=515.2s	515.2	 the training game again. Once your dog is successful with the door open you can practice with the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=522.7s	522.7	 closed. If at any point the dog gets up or looks worried and wants to come out of the crate or pen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=528.1s	528.1	 you can either open the door calmly or open the door and go and sit in the pen with the dog so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=533.5s	533.5	 that he can calm down and realize that he's not trapped inside the pen. To make it easier for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=539.9s	539.9	 dog when you're first working on the noises of the door opening and closing you can be in the pen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=545.5s	545.5	 with your dog or have your dog on the outside of the pen so the dog doesn't suddenly feel trapped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=551.3s	551.3	 when he's seeing the door open and close for the first few times. So every time the door makes a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=557.1s	557.1	 noise you can say good and then go to feed your dog a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=564.2s	564.2	 Good. Step five, alone time. When you start leaving your dog unattended it's important to use a safe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=572.7s	572.7	 setup for your dog. The setup I have here could be extremely unsafe for some dogs that might think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=578.7s	578.7	 that they could climb over the top or push the pen around the room and perhaps chew on power cords or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=584.3s	584.3	 pull your curtains down so you want to make sure it's a safe pen and for some dogs it might need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=590.1s	590.1	 to be much taller or that it has a lid and a base so that the dog can't get out and that perhaps you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=597.2s	597.2	 have an extra security where you you lock it with a carabiner or a clip. Also you might want to choose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=604.9s	604.9	 a floor like getting some linoleum from a hardware store to put down underneath the pen in case the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=611.7s	611.7	 dog goes to the bathroom and your floor could easily be ruined by that. If you just got a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=616.7s	616.7	 puppy or dog who is already comfortable with being left alone you can immediately start leaving your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=622.0s	622.0	 dog for short periods even when you are still working on the different steps in this tutorial.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=627.6s	627.6	 Anytime you see your dog settle down for a nap you can encourage your dog to go in his pen then you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=633.5s	633.5	 can sit with him until he falls asleep. Then when you hear your dog wake up and start to move around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=638.7s	638.7	 you can calmly let the dog out of the pen. If you have a dog with separation anxiety or you're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=643.9s	643.9	 sure whether he'll panic when he wakes up you can leave the door to the pen open. To transition to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=650.4s	650.4	 leaving your dog in the whole house first leave the dog in a pen and when he is stopped chewing on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=655.6s	655.6	 inappropriate things and doing undesirable behaviors when you're home watching him you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=660.2s	660.2	 then transition to a room and then to the whole house. When you change the picture go back to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=665.7s	665.7	 leaving the dog for short periods at first and be home to monitor his behavior. Some dogs will do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=672.5s	672.5	 better with being left in one room rather than in the whole house if for example there is a place in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=677.7s	677.7	 the house where the dog might sit and bark at noises or sights outside. I like to create a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=684.4s	684.4	 leaving ritual with my own dogs. I send them all to their beds. I give everyone a treat and then I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=689.6s	689.6	 wave and say see you later guys and then I walk through the door and close it. Now the great thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=694.8s	694.8	 about doing this during the training sessions and when I have to leave my dogs when I have to leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=700.7s	700.7	 the house is that it teaches the dogs that when I do this behavior it means to relax and take a nap
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=707.2s	707.2	 so if I need to use it in other situations like I need to leave them in the car briefly or I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=712.7s	712.7	 staying at someone else's house and I need to leave them there briefly that it's the same behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=719.0s	719.0	 that is at home. Let's go to bed. When leaving your dog for the first few times I suggest using a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=725.6s	725.6	 video camera or putting music on and being home so that if the dog starts to worry you can return
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=731.9s	731.9	 and then go back a step in the training plan. When raising criteria you want to make sure that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=737.1s	737.1	 you're not predictably making things harder and harder for the dog so if you've left your dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=742.1s	742.1	 longer than you've ever left him before then the next time that you leave your dog I suggest leaving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=747.2s	747.2	 your dog for an extremely short period of time. If you have a dog that gets overexcited by greeting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=754.7s	754.7	 you when you return you can change the picture by making your homecoming about going out to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=760.1s	760.1	 bathroom or receiving a treat instead of a greeting then 10 minutes later after your dog has had a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=766.3s	766.3	 chance to calm down you can then greet your dog as you would have when you got home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=771.1s	771.1	 Do you guys need to go to the toilet? Hey look this way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=780.2s	780.2	 To set your dog up for success provide enough physical and mental stimulation before leaving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=786.2s	786.2	 such as walking and playing a training game. A small pen or crate is not a long-term solution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=792.5s	792.5	 for leaving a dog for extended periods of time. The end goal is having the dog loosen a room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=798.2s	798.2	 or loosen the house where he can move around and make choices throughout the day.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=803.2s	803.2	 You might need to hire a dog sitter to come and interact with your dog if you need to work long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=808.7s	808.7	 hours. Dogs are social animals and spending too much time alone or in a small confined area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgHu0bGLoH0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=217&pp=iAQB&t=815.5s	815.5	 can cause behavior problems.
