https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone, this video is on the topic of introducing a new dog to your multi dog household.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=5.6s	5.6	 Now if you have a dog that has never been around dogs or you're just not sure what your dog will do around other dogs or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=12.8s	12.8	 has acted fearful, anxious, reactive or even aggressive towards dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=18.4s	18.4	 I suggest getting help from a veterinary behaviorist or a trainer that doesn't use any forms of physical or psychological
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=26.3s	26.3	 intimidation to help you with this training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=29.4s	29.4	 First encounters.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=31.6s	31.6	 Set up the first encounters so all dogs have a positive experience when in the presence of the new dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=38.4s	38.4	 Control the environment to reduce stress and arousal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=41.8s	41.8	 Don't let the encounter get to the point where one dog feels he has to intimidate or correct the other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=49.3s	49.3	 Tips for first encounters.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=51.5s	51.5	 Begin in a neutral environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=53.6s	53.6	 This will be less startling for a dog who has never encountered dogs in his own home and will allow you to create greater
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=60.5s	60.5	 distance if needed then confined to a room.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=64.6s	64.6	 Settles together. Have both dogs settle on a mat at a distance and receive positive feedback for noticing the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=72.6s	72.6	 such as verbal praise and treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=75.4s	75.4	 Come walks together. Walk parallel from each other at a distance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=79.9s	79.9	 Mark and reinforce when your dog notices the other dog. If one dog is calm,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=86.3s	86.3	 confident and friendly with other dogs, you can have that dog walk ahead of the other dog that is unsure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 After success with parallel walking, you can practice walking past each other in an arc and then past each other in a straight line.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=100.8s	100.8	 Decrease the distance if the dogs are calm and confident and increase the distance if the dogs start to show signs of stress or unease.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=110.2s	110.2	 Having the dogs settle first at a distance and then closer together is a great way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 reinforce the dogs for being calm in each other's presence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=118.6s	118.6	 What can happen if you have a puppy whose first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=121.8s	121.8	 experiences are with playing with the other dog when meeting, it can be hard to teach the puppy that the sight of the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=129.0s	129.0	 isn't an invitation to play and bother the other dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=133.1s	133.1	 Unless you have an extremely calm, social and confident dog, when first meeting another dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=139.1s	139.1	 especially in a situation that he is not used to, it can cause him to feel stressed and excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=144.8s	144.8	 This excitement can sometimes cause a dog to overreact or act unpredictably.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=150.4s	150.4	 So the safest method for preventing the dogs from having a negative experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=155.0s	155.0	 during their first encounters is to break the steps up so the dogs are feeling safe and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=160.7s	160.7	 confident every step of the way. When I first got my latest puppy, Halo,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=165.1s	165.1	 he was very confident and relaxed around my own dogs, but when seeing strange dogs in the environment,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 he started to become a little bit timid. So what I did was meet people with calm,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=177.0s	177.0	 friendly, social dogs and I had them walk in front of me so that Halo could follow behind and build his confidence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=184.2s	184.2	 And I also worked on settling with the other dogs. To build a positive association with the new puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=190.7s	190.7	 every time you give the puppy a treat, you give your adult dog a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=194.8s	194.8	 You want to do it in that order because that means you paying attention to your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=199.8s	199.8	 predicts that you give your dog a treat. If you give your dog a treat and then give the puppy a treat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=204.5s	204.5	 the dog's not going to get as strong an association of the puppy predicting something good happening.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 So anytime you pet your puppy or give your puppy attention or your puppy moves and you have a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=216.0s	216.0	 that's worried or dislikes the puppy, you pay attention to the puppy or the puppy does something and then, good job, Wish!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=222.9s	222.9	 Then Wish gets something amazing. Hey, Wishie. Good girl. So brave. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=228.7s	228.7	 Anytime you see your dog look at the puppy when they move, you can also mark,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=233.6s	233.6	 tell them how good they are and then give them a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=236.7s	236.7	 Now you want to make sure that the distance is far enough apart that your dog is comfortable. If your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=242.5s	242.5	 looks like your dog is threatening the puppy or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=245.9s	245.9	 doing warning signs or just can't look away from the puppy and is too hyper fixated,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=251.5s	251.5	 then you need to create distance. So when they were first hanging out, Wish was on the other side of a barrier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=257.0s	257.0	 getting used to the puppy for a couple of days before being this close and off leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=262.6s	262.6	 Hey, Wish.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=264.0s	264.0	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=272.6s	272.6	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=274.9s	274.9	 It really helps if you have another family member or friend to help you with this because it can be a little bit tricky
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=280.6s	280.6	 to train two dogs at once.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=284.2s	284.2	 First interactions. If you're blessed with introducing dogs that are social, calm and polite with each other,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=291.2s	291.2	 you might not need to manage the social interaction at all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=296.4s	296.4	 Kikomachewawa is one of those dogs that I rarely have to manage at all around puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=301.7s	301.7	 unless the puppy is a little older and might actually hurt her by jumping on her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 Splash, my 12 year old Border Collie, who usually has no interest in playing with puppies,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=310.8s	310.8	 found Halo to be the perfect match for her and they play very similarly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=314.8s	314.8	 so I didn't have to do much management at all when they were playing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=318.8s	318.8	 If one dog is calm, confident and friendly and the other dog is a little bit unsure and needs more time to warm up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=325.8s	325.8	 you can have the confident dog stand, sit or lay down calmly and the dog that's unsure can approach the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=332.8s	332.8	 and sniff the dog from behind briefly without having to go face to face with that dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=337.8s	337.8	 You can feed the dog that is getting sniffed and keep a hold of his collar.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=341.8s	341.8	 If you are worried, he will suddenly turn around and go face to face with the dog that is unsure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=346.8s	346.8	 Keep the sniffing short so no dog gets overwhelmed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=349.8s	349.8	 Two to three seconds is a great idea.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=352.8s	352.8	 You can then cue the dog to move away with you on leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=355.8s	355.8	 Only do this with dogs that are comfortable with you and that are comfortable with you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=359.8s	359.8	 Only do this with dogs that are comfortable with the exercise as some dogs do not like being sniffed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=365.8s	365.8	 when they have their collar held or when eating.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=368.8s	368.8	 Another variation is allowing a dog who is following the other one enough leash to sniff the dog he is following briefly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=375.8s	375.8	 before then creating distance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=377.8s	377.8	 The dog in the front can be receiving treats as it happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=381.8s	381.8	 To set my puppy up for success, to feel confident during a positive interaction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=387.8s	387.8	 with a new adult dog named Tank, we first walked with the dogs on leash together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=392.8s	392.8	 and then practiced a settle at a distance from each other and then closer before then allowing the dogs to interact.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=403.8s	403.8	 These three of my adult dogs were extremely comfortable with being loose with the puppy right from the start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=408.8s	408.8	 because they have had so much experience with puppies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=412.8s	412.8	 Wish, my three-year-old Bordicalli, was very fearful as a puppy of dogs and people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=417.8s	417.8	 and especially of being approached and touched.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=420.8s	420.8	 She had an interest in being social, but she was terrified of being touched or having the other dog go near her face
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=426.8s	426.8	 so she would back up towards dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=429.8s	429.8	 She made a lot of progress and started to socialize and play with other dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=433.8s	433.8	 but then when she hit nine months old, the day that she went into heat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=437.8s	437.8	 it was almost as though her brain reset to being extremely anxious and extremely fearful around dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=443.8s	443.8	 even around my own dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=445.8s	445.8	 Suddenly, she would act terrified if any of my dogs were to walk past her, let alone even approach her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=451.8s	451.8	 Even today, she requires carefully planned introductions with dogs to prevent her having a fearful or anxious response.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=459.8s	459.8	 She was already very used to having other dogs visit my house while she relaxed behind a barrier,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=464.8s	464.8	 so it made it much easier when bringing the puppy home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=468.8s	468.8	 I would switch between having Wish behind the barrier, watching the puppy interact with me and the other dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=474.8s	474.8	 and then when the puppy needed a nap, I would put the puppy behind the barrier and Wish could be with the other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=480.8s	480.8	 At first, I used a double barrier so the dogs couldn't go face to face.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=484.8s	484.8	 For some dogs, the barriers might need to be on either end of the room at first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=488.8s	488.8	 so the dogs are 10 or 20 feet away from each other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=493.8s	493.8	 Can she go sniff? Good! Good girl, Wish!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=500.8s	500.8	 I first set up training sessions where the dogs could learn to interact through the barrier with guidance and reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=508.8s	508.8	 Here I am throwing a treat behind Wish so I can test to see if she'd like to approach the puppy again or if she would prefer to have a break.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=517.8s	517.8	 If you have a dog that doesn't have a history of being calm, friendly, and benevolent when playing with other dogs of all ages in all situations,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=527.8s	527.8	 when introducing the new dog to your household, I don't suggest that you should just let them play together in the first few encounters and hope that nothing bad happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=536.8s	536.8	 The calmer the dogs are, the less likely they'll be to overreact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=541.8s	541.8	 so by taking it slow, you can build on short, positive experiences, leaving your dog wanting more interactions with the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=549.8s	549.8	 rather than the first experience of playing being a negative experience for one of the dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=557.8s	557.8	 It's a great sign if your dog initiates play in the first few encounters,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=561.8s	561.8	 but just because your dog tries to initiate play with the other dog doesn't necessarily mean that he won't suddenly feel overwhelmed when actually playing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=571.8s	571.8	 For example, if the other dog were suddenly to do something that your dog was not expecting,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=576.8s	576.8	 like putting his paws up on your dog's back or biting at your dog playfully.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=582.8s	582.8	 If at any point a dog is getting stressed, overexcited, or offering undesirable behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=588.8s	588.8	 you can interrupt the dog using a positively trained cue, such as a recall, an attention noise, or the cue, leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=601.8s	601.8	 Pup pups, come here, let's go play with your toy instead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=611.8s	611.8	 If your dog is just not listening, you can separate your dogs and give them a break from each other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=618.8s	618.8	 It's important to learn what appropriate and inappropriate play looks like in dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=623.8s	623.8	 but at any time when you feel unsure, I suggest interrupting the dogs and having them take a break apart from each other or just working on the settle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=639.8s	639.8	 Keep the dogs in separate rooms when you have to leave the house to prevent them having negative interactions while you are not home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=646.8s	646.8	 Having the dogs in the same room with a barrier can be problematic for some dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=650.8s	650.8	 because they can intimidate each other or get frustrated by not being able to reach each other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=655.8s	655.8	 Monitor all interactions in the first stages while the dogs are building their relationship and learning how to interact with each other appropriately.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=665.8s	665.8	 I hope you found this video helpful for your training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=668.8s	668.8	 Don't forget to like, comment, and subscribe to Channel Kikopup.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EzJsiYiqVSY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=221&pp=iAQB&t=672.8s	672.8	 See you later guys, bye!
