https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everybody, this video is on the topic of solving the issue of your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=4.8s	4.8	 barking at noises while inside your house by creating a behavior modification plan.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=10.2s	10.2	 Now if you learn better by reading, I have an article on this exact same topic and I'll link that in the description below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=16.6s	16.6	 I find it extremely important to work on this issue,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 especially if your dog is barking or worrying or alerting to noises every day of their life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=27.2s	27.2	 while in your house or apartment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=29.2s	29.2	 This is because your dog doesn't have a place where he feels safe enough that he can get a proper deep sleep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=36.1s	36.1	 without having to worry about what's going on outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=39.2s	39.2	 So I believe it's in not only your dog's best interest, but also your interest to solve this issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=45.1s	45.1	 because what can happen is if your dog is constantly not getting enough sleep because he's worrying about noises outside or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=52.1s	52.1	 reacting to noises outside, he's gonna start having other behavioral issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 such as a lot of dogs actually react to dogs and people in the street more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=61.6s	61.6	 So a lot of people might hire a trainer and they're working on their dog, not barking at people or dogs while outside on a walk,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=69.9s	69.9	 but then every day when the dog gets left and the owner goes to work,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=73.9s	73.9	 the dog is then barking at people and dogs that they hear when they're outside, so the training can seem like it's going nowhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=80.4s	80.4	 So before you even try to address
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=83.4s	83.4	 the dog reacting when out on a walk, you really have to get to the root of the problem,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=88.2s	88.2	 which is the dog is reacting while inside of your house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=92.0s	92.0	 This is my behavior modification plan.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=94.4s	94.4	 Number one is preventing the dog from hearing the noises in between training sessions as much as possible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=100.9s	100.9	 Number two is setting up training sessions where you can teach your dog to be calm and relaxed in the presence of the noises and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=108.1s	108.1	 number three is training in real life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=110.4s	110.4	 I'm gonna go over each of these. The first step is using prevention,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=115.1s	115.1	 preventing your dog rehearsing the behavior of reacting to the noises in between training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=120.8s	120.8	 Now if you live in a small apartment that's pretty noisy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=124.0s	124.0	 it can be hard to get rid of the noises completely, but trying your best to reduce the noises can be helpful.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=132.0s	132.0	 For example, if your dog is left in a quiet room,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=135.2s	135.2	 those noises upstairs might be more intense than if there's music playing and white noise machines.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=142.1s	142.1	 So some of the things that I like to do with my clients dogs and also with my own dogs that have in the past had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=148.5s	148.5	 a problem with this is use a white noise machine, a fan, and when the dog is left alone,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=155.0s	155.0	 leaving the dog in the least noisiest place in the apartment or house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=159.8s	159.8	 So for some houses and apartments, the least noisiest place might actually be the center of the living room,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=166.8s	166.8	 so you can create a pen with a crate and a radio next to the pen so that the dog is not hearing the noises from the windows.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=176.4s	176.4	 First you would need to train the dog to be okay with being left in this situation,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=181.0s	181.0	 but it can create a dog that is much calmer when being left alone because they're not being bombarded by all these noises from outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=189.8s	189.8	 Now if you live in an apartment or a house where the noises come from one direction, perhaps the street,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=195.6s	195.6	 then I suggest keeping the dog in the room furthest from that place where the street and the noises outside are coming from.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=203.3s	203.3	 So if there's a front door in a hallway and there's a back bedroom, that might actually be the best place to leave the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=210.4s	210.4	 Now it's important that whenever you leave a dog, you train them first to be left in this situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 because that could also add to the dog's stress if they're suddenly left in a new situation they might react even more to the noises.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=224.2s	224.2	 If your dog is only barking at noises when you're not home, it could be due to the fact that your dog feels uncomfortable being left at home alone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=232.0s	232.0	 and that that is the big piece of the puzzle that you need to be working on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=235.7s	235.7	 which is teaching your dog to feel comfortable and relaxed when home alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=240.2s	240.2	 I suggest the best plan of action is teaching the dog to want to sleep when you're not in the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=246.0s	246.0	 and to promote your dog sleeping when you're gone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=248.9s	248.9	 It's a great idea to set up training sessions where you leave your dog while you're home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=253.6s	253.6	 in the setup that you'll be leaving your dog when you're not home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=257.0s	257.0	 and working on the dog relaxing on his dog bed when left in this situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=262.3s	262.3	 I'll link a video in the description below of how to teach your dog to go to the bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=266.5s	266.5	 and also how to teach your dog to settle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=269.4s	269.4	 The next step is setting up training sessions to teach your dog to be calm and relaxed when hearing these noises.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=276.0s	276.0	 Now most dogs are so sensitized to the actual noises that when they hear the actual noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=281.7s	281.7	 they're so aroused that they can't help but bark and they might not even want to take treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=286.3s	286.3	 So it's important to break the training up into small achievable steps so your dog is calm every step of the way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=293.4s	293.4	 One way to do this is to write a list of all the noises that your dog reacts to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=298.3s	298.3	 If you're not sure what the noises are you can just take a guess
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=303.1s	303.1	 and create noises that happen outside the house and work on them and as you're working on them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=308.5s	308.5	 you might find that your dog is getting excited by those noises and that tells you that they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 probably the noises that your dog reacts to. So some examples of noises to work on are the sound of footsteps,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=322.0s	322.0	 running, shuffling feet, people's voices, the sound of jingling dog collars, the sound of jingling keys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=329.6s	329.6	 the sound of dogs barking or panting or pulling on leash where they're kind of gagging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=335.6s	335.6	 like that. That's a big trigger for some dogs. The sound of cars, the sound of motorbikes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=342.9s	342.9	 the sound of a bicycle or skateboards outside and the sound of the neighbors thudding around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=349.6s	349.6	 in the apartment, the sound of door knobs if you live in an apartment where people are going in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=355.2s	355.2	 and out of the doors or the elevator noise. So one thing you can do is record the sounds outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 with your phone or your computer and then play them back inside at a very low volume. The other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=368.4s	368.4	 idea is if you have keys or jingly collars you can reproduce the sound inside. So what you're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=375.7s	375.7	 is you're conditioning the dog to find the sound means nothing. So for example if you use keys you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=383.8s	383.8	 jingle your key then feed a treat and it's extremely important to do it inside your home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=388.8s	388.8	 where your dog can see where the sound is coming from. So if you've recorded something or you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=393.5s	393.5	 playing back a video where there's a jingly key you play the video feed a treat where your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=399.4s	399.4	 sees that you're holding the equipment that's making the sound to reduce the startle because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=405.1s	405.1	 if your dog doesn't know where the sound is coming from he most likely will bark. If your dog gets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=411.4s	411.4	 excited by the sound of knocking I have a video on on breaking the steps up small enough and I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=417.2s	417.2	 link that in the description below but basically you're sitting in front of your dog you knock
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=422.8s	422.8	 and then give them a treat knock and then give them a treat and then increase and you might be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=428.0s	428.0	 amazed at how startled a dog can get even when you knock on your own furniture and they can see you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=433.6s	433.6	 doing it. So it might take quite a few training sessions before your dog understands that these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=440.2s	440.2	 noises aren't scary or exciting anymore so keep up your training especially if you have one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=446.9s	446.9	 those places where you just can't prevent the dog from hearing any noises. The part of the training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=453.6s	453.6	 that's going to help your dog is the training setups. So if your dog is hearing the noises
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=459.0s	459.0	 in between the training it's going to water down the effectiveness of your training so you really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=465.6s	465.6	 need to set up training sessions every single day to teach your dog that these noises aren't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=472.0s	472.0	 scary and they just simply mean to relax and be calm. Once your dog has gotten to the point where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=477.6s	477.6	 he's comfortable hearing these noises while he's inside his house and seeing where the source of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=482.3s	482.3	 the noise is coming from inside the house you can start to work on the concept of the noises coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=487.8s	487.8	 from outside. So one of your family members can have your dog on a leash and harness and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=493.5s	493.5	 can watch as another family member or friend leaves the house and produces the noises from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=499.4s	499.4	 the doorway where the dog can see that it's still that same person producing the noises.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=505.2s	505.2	 Now if the dog were to bark it simply means to go back a step and make things easier so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=510.5s	510.5	 might need to go back and work on the noises inside the house before then working on them outside.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=516.5s	516.5	 Once the dog is comfortable with hearing the noises with the door open you can then practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=521.2s	521.2	 having the family member walking past the window making those same noises. From inside the person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=527.0s	527.0	 who's working with the dog is going to feed the dog every time they hear the noise. It's extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=532.8s	532.8	 important that your dog isn't alerting to the noises so you really want a dog that looks like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=538.4s	538.4	 they almost don't even know the noise is happening where they're casually looking around. If your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=543.7s	543.7	 is constantly on edge during this training it means that you're pushing the training too quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=549.5s	549.5	 and it's not going to help your dog to be calm when hearing the noises so you need to break up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=554.6s	554.6	 the steps small enough where your dog is relaxed. So if your dog is really startled when somebody
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=561.1s	561.1	 runs past the window and it's a family member then you can practice first inside with the family
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=567.1s	567.1	 member running back and forth until the dog is really relaxed with that behavior before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=572.4s	572.4	 seeing it happening outside which might be seeing and hearing it which might be the trigger.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=578.8s	578.8	 A lot of times seeing the things outside as well can trigger dogs to bark so part of the prevention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=585.6s	585.6	 plan for that would be not allowing the dog access to seeing out of the windows and some dogs can even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=592.8s	592.8	 see under door cracks so they'll see shadows of people passing their apartment so you can prevent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=599.2s	599.2	 your dog from seeing these triggers as well because they can also cause your dog to bark.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=605.6s	605.6	 The third step is real life training. After multiple training sessions where you've taught
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=610.0s	610.0	 your dog to be calm around the noises and the artificial noises you've created outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=615.2s	615.2	 you're then going to start giving your dog feedback for the actual noises that happen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=620.4s	620.4	 So you turn off your white noise machine maybe you're on your computer and you hear a noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=624.9s	624.9	 outside and as you hear the noise you tell your dog how good he is in a calm relaxed manner. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=632.0s	632.0	 maybe there's a little knocking noise and you turn to your dog and say good and then you get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=637.4s	637.4	 up casually and walk over and get your dog a treat out of a treat container. Either you could get the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=643.0s	643.0	 treat from the fridge or you can have treat containers around your house with some dried
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=647.6s	647.6	 treats so they're easily accessible for noises. It's really important that every single noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=653.4s	653.4	 you hear you give your dog feedback in a calm relaxed manner and give them reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=659.7s	659.7	 for not reacting to the noises. If you can't hear the noises yourself that the dog is hearing what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=665.9s	665.9	 you can do instead is have the dog in the same room as you and as you see your dog lift his head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=671.6s	671.6	 up as if to hear the noise that's when you're immediately going to give him the calm feedback
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=676.9s	676.9	 of telling him how good he is and then going to get the treat. What to do if the dog does bark at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=682.9s	682.9	 a noise? Now it's important to understand that the best behavior modification plan would be where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=688.5s	688.5	 you're trying to prevent the dog barking at noises at all as you're training your dog the new emotional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=694.1s	694.1	 response of being calm and relaxed when hearing the noises but of course accidents do happen or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=700.1s	700.1	 you make your training go too quickly and the dog might react to one of the noises that you're using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=705.2s	705.2	 in a training setup or perhaps everyday life your dog hears the noise through the white noise machine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=711.6s	711.6	 or when you have the white noise machine off and what should you do? I think it's extremely important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=717.5s	717.5	 to not ignore the dog when they're barking because barking can be self-reinforcing and they might bark
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=722.7s	722.7	 for the rest of their lives if you just ignore them so for me it's important to interrupt the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=728.1s	728.1	 behavior and redirect the dog to a behavior you would like the dog to be doing so some of the ways
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=734.5s	734.5	 that you interrupt undesirable behavior work really well. I have a video on how to interrupt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=740.3s	740.3	 undesirable behavior and I'll link that in in the description below but a couple of ways are using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=747.4s	747.4	 cues that you've trained with positive reinforcement like a recall so if your dog has an extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=753.9s	753.9	 strong recall you can call your dog as they start barking another one is the leave it cue and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=760.7s	760.7	 cue to go to your bed if you've just started training one of these like the leave it or the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=766.2s	766.2	 go to your bed I don't suggest trying to use them to interrupt barking it's better to use cues that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=773.2s	773.2	 are extremely strong that you've trained in at least 12 training sessions where the dog has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=779.3s	779.3	 got a conditioned emotional response to the cue and the response to want to listen to you if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=786.5s	786.5	 try to use cues you've just trained when your dog is barking most likely they won't even hear you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=792.5s	792.5	 simply interrupting your dog every time he starts barking is not the best training method to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=798.1s	798.1	 your dog not to bark at noises the best method is by reinforcing the behavior you do want your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=804.4s	804.4	 to do when he hears the noise initially which is to be calm and relaxed and the best way to do this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=810.6s	810.6	 is by setting up training setups in the future when you've resolved the issue of your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=816.1s	816.1	 barking at noises outside the house I still find it extremely important that if you hear an extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=822.0s	822.0	 loud noise or a new noise or one that you haven't heard in a very long time that you give your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=827.9s	827.9	 positive feedback when hearing the noise instead of just sitting silently and wondering what will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=833.2s	833.2	 happen I suggest as you hear the noise you turn to your dog you show them calming signals you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=839.6s	839.6	 blink at them you smile in a calm relaxed manner you can even sigh and tell your dog how good he is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=847.6s	847.6	 when hearing the noise this will let your dog know that you hear the noise and that it's not an issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=853.2s	853.2	 for him to worry about it's just one of those training games if you keep really quiet and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=858.3s	858.3	 pretend like you haven't heard the noise I find that doesn't help the dog out as much and they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=863.7s	863.7	 can regress to their previous behavior of barking at whatever noise it is I hope you enjoyed this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=869.3s	869.3	 video I hope it was helpful for your training if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=875.6s	875.6	 comment and subscribe to my channel you can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAiJEbKFW6c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=223&pp=iAQB&t=881.6s	881.6	 clicking the join button thank you so much bye
