https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Have you ever been out on a walk with your dog and suddenly another dog starts running in your direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=5.2s	5.2	 and there's an owner in the distance yelling,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=7.4s	7.4	 don't worry, he's friendly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 Now most dogs put in a situation like this with a dog running straight at them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 will exhibit what looks like some negative behaviors such as growling, snapping, lunging, and barking at the approaching dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=22.0s	22.0	 Most owners believe that it's their dog that has the behavioral problem and not the approaching dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=28.2s	28.2	 because that dog didn't seem to show any threatening signs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=31.4s	31.4	 The dog didn't bark, snap, growl, or try to bite their dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=36.0s	36.0	 It depends on what your definition of a friendly dog is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=39.4s	39.4	 but for me a friendly dog is a dog that enjoys social interaction and has great social skills.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=46.5s	46.5	 In my opinion one of the most important social skills in dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=50.1s	50.1	 is being able to read other dogs facial expression and body language and act accordingly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 So for example if one dog is feeling threatened or scared or intimidated by another dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=61.8s	61.8	 and is displaying signs that he doesn't want the other dog to come closer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=65.4s	65.4	 then the friendly social dog should listen to that dog's request
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=69.7s	69.7	 and offer that dog calming signals rather than disregard what the other dog is communicating to him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=75.7s	75.7	 and keep on going with the behavior that he's doing that's making the other dog uncomfortable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=80.4s	80.4	 Another really important social skill for dogs is their ability to communicate with other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=84.6s	84.6	 that they are not a threat and indeed friendly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=87.1s	87.1	 Now dogs do this in many different types of ways but some of those ways is instead of a direct approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=93.1s	93.1	 they might arc around to meet your dog or stop at a distance and invite your dog into their space
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=99.6s	99.6	 and when they're approaching your dog they will offer your dog signals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=103.4s	103.4	 that they are not a threat such as looking away, blinking their eyes, sniffing the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=108.5s	108.5	 where the opposite of that picture is a direct approach without any blinking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=113.8s	113.8	 So imagine you're walking down the street and someone starts walking straight at you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=117.8s	117.8	 and they're staring at you and they're not looking away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=120.5s	120.5	 Most of us feel unnerved by that and our dogs feel the same way when approached by another dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=126.2s	126.2	 that is staring at them. Now sometimes dogs act this way when they're overexcited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 and they give off signs as though they're doing threatening behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=135.9s	135.9	 So a dog that's so excited to see another dog might run straight at them when they're calmer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=142.4s	142.4	 they might not do that same type of behavior. So if you have a dog that is offering these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=147.1s	147.1	 behaviors that are slightly antisocial when meeting other dogs that they charge the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=152.5s	152.5	 and they're not listening to the other dog's signals that they're uncomfortable it's important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=157.8s	157.8	 to help out that other dog and also for your dog's own safety because if your dog runs over to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=164.2s	164.2	 another dog like that it could be possible that the dog that he runs over to might actually have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 to bite your dog because your dog's not listening to his communication. If you have the dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=174.6s	174.6	 charges other dogs I suggest keeping your dog on a leash 100% of the time when out in public and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=180.3s	180.3	 then if you do want to have your dog off leash you could go somewhere like a baseball field.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=184.5s	184.5	 I also think it's extremely important to work on the issue. Now if your dog is showing any signs of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=189.0s	189.0	 fear or reactivity or aggression towards other dogs I suggest you hire a professional trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=194.8s	194.8	 who doesn't use any forms of physical or psychological intimidation to help you with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=198.4s	198.4	 the problem but a great training plan would be teaching your dog to be calm around other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=204.0s	204.0	 before teaching your dog how to interact appropriately with other dogs. So one idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=209.7s	209.7	 might be setting up a training session with a trainer who has a calm friendly decoy dog and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=215.2s	215.2	 you can work on settles together like you might at a cafe. So you might need to be at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=221.4s	221.4	 from each other at first where your dogs can relax and have your dogs relax on a mat at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=226.7s	226.7	 where they can just be calm in each other's presence then you could get close enough where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=230.6s	230.6	 they're closer together and not being excited by each other's presence. Another exercise you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 could practice is walking past each other or walking parallel and reinforcing your dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=242.2s	242.2	 being calm without having to rush up to the other dog. If you have a dog that's been charged by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=247.4s	247.4	 other dogs and is now acting fearful anxious or reacting to other dogs it's important to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=253.0s	253.0	 prevent this happening to your dog again. Now it doesn't seem fair because usually the dog that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=258.5s	258.5	 off leash is breaking the law because of leash laws but until you've worked on the issues of your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=264.8s	264.8	 you need to walk your dog where they can feel safe and you know that the dog isn't going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=269.1s	269.1	 have a setback with a loose dog charging them. So some ideas are walking in an enclosed baseball
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=275.0s	275.0	 field where there's a fence and another idea is walking around the edge of a mall where there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=280.1s	280.1	 hopefully is some grass and bushes to sniff. It's also a great idea to hire a trainer who doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=285.4s	285.4	 use any forms of physical or psychological intimidation and has a bunch of decoy dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=290.5s	290.5	 that are calm friendly and social that you can then work with your dog with to build your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=296.6s	296.6	 confidence and trust in other dogs in the environment. I hope you found this video helpful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=301.8s	301.8	 for your training. Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to channel Kikopup. You can also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HiziN7mluz8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=225&pp=iAQB&t=307.4s	307.4	 become a supporting member of this channel by clicking the join button. See you later guys!
