https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey everyone, this is one of the first games that I play with all my puppies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=4.1s	4.1	 It's not only great for building your relationship with your new puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=7.5s	7.5	 but it's also great for teaching your puppy to want to move with you when out and about and it also builds their motivation to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=15.1s	15.1	 want to work for the treats that you have. The game is very simple.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=18.8s	18.8	 You move away from your puppy and then you reinforce your puppy's choice for wanting to move in your direction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 A very simple way to play this is making an enticing noise as you run away from your puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=30.6s	30.6	 I like to say, like that or clap my hands. Some puppies are a little bit scared of clapping,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=36.6s	36.6	 so you might just want to try the high pitched voice and if you're a guy and you don't want to make a high pitched voice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=41.6s	41.6	 or you just can't, you can try whistling like that to get your puppy enticed to want to move towards you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=48.8s	48.8	 And then if your puppy has a marker like yes or a click, you can click as your puppy is moving towards you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=55.9s	55.9	 or if you don't have a clicker or marker yet, you can just simply feed as your puppy gets to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=61.4s	61.4	 And I suggest holding your hand out further away from your body and low to the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=65.6s	65.6	 so the puppy gets used to running to you and not jumping on you as they come towards you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=70.9s	70.9	 As soon as the puppy is eating the treats, you're then going to take off running away from your puppy in another direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=77.0s	77.0	 and then reinforce your puppy for getting to you. I suggest keeping these games extremely short,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=82.6s	82.6	 like 20 seconds to 30 seconds and I suggest playing the games in your living room and out in your yard first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=90.2s	90.2	 and if you have success with the games then, then you can try them on a walk outside the front of your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=96.7s	96.7	 or in the park like I'm going to show you in the footage with my own puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=101.8s	101.8	 Now it's really important that you stay safe so you want to have your puppy on a leash and harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=108.0s	108.0	 or a long line in a harness or in an enclosed area. So I'm in an enclosed area with a fence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=113.9s	113.9	 so I'm dropping my puppy's leash while I'm playing this game. I find it easier to play this game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=119.4s	119.4	 when you can create more distance from the puppy. Sometimes if a puppy is not that interested in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 following you and you only go five feet away, that doesn't really entice them to want to keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=130.4s	130.4	 coming towards you. So I suggest investing in a long line so you can get further away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=135.5s	135.5	 further away from your puppy while still staying safe in case your puppy were to run away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=153.4s	153.4	 If you have a puppy that's not that motivated by the food, you want to refrain from moving the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=158.6s	158.6	 towards the puppy and into their space. Puppies and dogs are just like us and if you're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=165.0s	165.0	 feeling like eating something and someone is trying to feed you the thing, it becomes even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=170.2s	170.2	 more punishing so you can actually make the dog not want the food even more by trying too hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=176.8s	176.8	 Instead playing this keep away game where you're moving away from your puppy, you can really teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=182.5s	182.5	 puppies that aren't that interested in food to suddenly really want what you have. I hope you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=187.9s	187.9	 found this video helpful for your training. Don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=192.8s	192.8	 channel Kikopup. You can also become a supporting member of this channel by clicking the join button.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VHtunkKkdNM&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=228&pp=iAQB&t=198.8s	198.8	 See you later guys, bye!
