https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey everybody, today I'm going to show you how to train the cue drop. Now if your dog's not interested in toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=5.4s	5.4	 I have another video on how to train drop using your dog's chew stick and I'll link that in the description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=11.6s	11.6	 This is a very simple technique for training drop and I find it highly effective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=16.5s	16.5	 First you have to get the dog interested in playing with the toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=19.7s	19.7	 So this might take a little bit of time if you have treats out and your dog thinks that he's going to get treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=25.2s	25.2	 So you might want to wave the toy around you might spend a few minutes getting your dog invested in that toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=32.6s	32.6	 Once your dog's invested in tugging on the toy hold a treat to your dog's nose and when your dog lets go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=38.0s	38.0	 Give them the treat then you want to cue your dog to get the toy so you can say get it or whatever you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=44.9s	44.9	 But be careful because your dog might get your hand so you might want to use a bigger toy than I'm using here if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=50.7s	50.7	 Have a dog that might go for your hand instead of the toy. Are you ready? Get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=55.5s	55.5	 So you say get it first and then move the toy around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=59.7s	59.7	 You want to make sure your dog's really invested in tugging on that toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=63.3s	63.3	 But not too excited that he might be not wanting to let go of the toy for the treat if your dog doesn't let go of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=69.5s	69.5	 The toy for the treat you need to use a lower value toy or a higher value treat to play the game and maybe be less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=76.0s	76.0	 exciting about tugging on the toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=79.1s	79.1	 So once you've played the game where you put the treat up towards your dog's nose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=83.4s	83.4	 And he drops the frisbee or the toy reliably then you can start to add your cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=88.2s	88.2	 So you're just going to say your cue drop and then put the treat to your dog's nose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=92.7s	92.7	 Ready? Get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=95.8s	95.8	 It might take a couple of training sessions to get to the next step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=98.9s	98.9	 But the next step is saying drop good marking and then moving your hand to feed the treat drop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=105.2s	105.2	 You can mark and feed multiple times before cueing get it to teach your dog to wait for the cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=111.7s	111.7	 You can also add eye contact if your dog knows to look at you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=116.6s	116.6	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=127.0s	127.0	 Drop good good boy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wn9qtqlZguY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=230&pp=iAQB&t=133.8s	133.8	 Ready? Good
