https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey everyone, the topic of this video is how long should you spend training your dog in training sessions?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=5.6s	5.6	 And the answer is it really depends on a few factors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=9.4s	9.4	 which I'm going to be talking about.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=10.8s	10.8	 But it's extremely important to remember that every single interaction that you have with your dog is training them something.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=17.1s	17.1	 So you're technically training your dog a hundred percent of the time that you interact with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=22.0s	22.0	 and I don't mean to overwhelm you with that idea,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=24.6s	24.6	 but you need to be mindful of your interactions with your dogs between training sessions because they're constantly learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=32.3s	32.3	 every interaction that you have.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=34.3s	34.3	 Here's a list of factors to consider when deciding how long a training session should be for a specific behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=39.9s	39.9	 You want to consider the dog's age, the dog's size, the personality of the dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=45.9s	45.9	 how mentally or physically taxing the behavior might be for the dog, how physically fit the dog is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 how the dog is feeling on that specific day and the rate of reinforcement that you're going to be using.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=60.4s	60.4	 The first factor that I mentioned is age. If you've just brought home a young puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=64.4s	64.4	 I suggest keeping training sessions short and for me short is under 60 seconds.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=69.4s	69.4	 So if you want to work on more stuff in a day,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=71.9s	71.9	 you can do multiple training sessions throughout the day. If you have a puppy that gets very excited by food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=77.5s	77.5	 I suggest training after a meal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=80.3s	80.3	 I like to feed all my dogs a big breakfast so that they're not overexcited by the food during the training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=86.8s	86.8	 But if you have a puppy that seems uninterested in your treats or the kibble that you're using to train,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=92.7s	92.7	 you can use the breakfast to train the dog or train before a meal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=97.2s	97.2	 After a few successful short training sessions with your puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=100.5s	100.5	 you can then experiment with the length of the session and if your puppy looks disinterested, it's no big deal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=105.9s	105.9	 Just make sure to keep the session shorter the next few times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=109.7s	109.7	 Keep in mind that older dogs might not want to train as long as they used to when they were younger,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 so you might keep sessions a little bit shorter for older dogs to keep them in the game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=119.7s	119.7	 If you're using food to train your dog in training sessions, size plays a role in how long the session can go on for.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=126.6s	126.6	 So for bigger dogs, they can eat more food because they have a bigger stomach, but little dogs can't.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=132.8s	132.8	 So you can cut the treats extremely small. For these two little guys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=137.2s	137.2	 they can even be the size of the head of a pin,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=140.7s	140.7	 if it's cheese, something like cheese like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 I also use the toy dog kibble for them, which is very small.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=146.6s	146.6	 And then another thing is if I have larger treats like the toy dog kibble,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=151.0s	151.0	 I measure it out before the training session and then when the bag ends, the training ends because there's just not enough room in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=158.0s	158.0	 their stomach to continue training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=160.6s	160.6	 The personality of the dog can also help determine how long training sessions should be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=164.8s	164.8	 My little Chihuahua Kiko here has always preferred short sessions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=168.4s	168.4	 and if I go too long, then she starts to slow down and get disinterested by the training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=173.6s	173.6	 My Terrier here is the complete opposite. When I kept sessions extremely short, under 60 seconds,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=180.3s	180.3	 he started to get way too excited by training. So instead of doing short sessions throughout the day,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=185.6s	185.6	 I would do longer sessions like three minutes and five minutes, and I found out that by doing that with him, it made him way less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=193.6s	193.6	 excited about training, which was good because he was too excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=197.3s	197.3	 He started making noise like growling and whining while he was training, and by having the longer sessions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=203.3s	203.3	 it helped with that issue that I was having with him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=206.1s	206.1	 I have three really easy border collies,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=208.5s	208.5	 so I can't screw up very much because they could train forever and not get over aroused or frustrated during the training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=215.8s	215.8	 The next factor is how mentally or physically taxing the behavior is for the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=220.4s	220.4	 So mentally taxing might be that the dog is learning a new behavior, and they've never done anything quite like that behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=227.2s	227.2	 So if you're teaching something new,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=230.1s	230.1	 usually dogs tire faster than if they're learning something that they've already learned, and you might be proofing it or just reminding them about it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=238.0s	238.0	 Physically taxing, there are some behaviors like laying that are very easy for dogs to do, and there are other behaviors like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=245.4s	245.4	 sit pretty, for example. When a dog's learning sit pretty at first,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=248.8s	248.8	 they don't have the muscles to sit pretty for a long duration, and so by repeating the behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=254.4s	254.4	 the dog is actually getting tired.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=256.6s	256.6	 So one solution that you can do is train multiple behaviors in a training session,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=261.3s	261.3	 and if one is physically taxing, then the next behavior you could work on is laying down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 So you could do sit pretty and then laying down and then maybe circling around you so that the dog isn't getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=272.0s	272.0	 tired from the training, which will then turn into disinterest in training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=276.2s	276.2	 When training behaviors involving movement,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=278.4s	278.4	 you also want to keep in mind how physically fit your dog is, because for example, if you asked me to do 20 push-ups,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=285.4s	285.4	 I would say no, thank you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=287.4s	287.4	 but another person would say, oh wow, that's really easy, I can do that, and the same goes for dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=292.9s	292.9	 So the fitter your dog is, the longer they usually can work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 So if your dog is out of shape or overweight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=300.7s	300.7	 they're gonna probably not be able to work as long as your friend's dog who is physically fit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=306.3s	306.3	 The next factor is rate of reinforcement. That means how many treats you give out during the training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=312.4s	312.4	 So if you're using a high rate of reinforcement,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=314.8s	314.8	 like I did for example in the video where I was teaching my dog to bow, I was giving treat, treat, treat after treat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=321.5s	321.5	 I'm gonna keep the training session extremely short, one, so the dog doesn't get full, and two,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=327.3s	327.3	 so the dog doesn't get overwhelmed. If you're using a low rate of reinforcement,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=332.2s	332.2	 maybe you're working on a stay with duration, then the training session could be much longer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=337.0s	337.0	 So for example, if you're working on a stay and your dog is staying for one minute and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=343.1s	343.1	 20 seconds, the training session is going to be much longer than teaching a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=348.9s	348.9	 sit pretty behavior. The final factor that I'm going to talk about is how the dog is feeling on a specific day.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=355.0s	355.0	 Now there are some dogs that even when they don't feel very well, they'll still be super excited to do training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=360.3s	360.3	 but there are other dogs that they're just not having a very good day and it starts to show in the training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=366.2s	366.2	 And so if you notice your dog is seeming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=368.6s	368.6	 disinterested or overly frustrated for some reason, I suggest ending the session and then trying again later or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=376.5s	376.5	 instead trying another day and instead of training you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=380.7s	380.7	 substitute that for giving them a food puzzle or a yummy chew stick to entertain themselves with and create some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=388.4s	388.4	 variety in their day and then save the training for later when they're feeling better.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=393.8s	393.8	 The method that I like to use for determining how long training sessions can be is doing a few short training sessions and then doing a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=400.8s	400.8	 trial session where you go on a little bit longer and see how the dog does. If the dog does great,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=405.9s	405.9	 then I suggest doing a few short training sessions again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=408.9s	408.9	 not back-to-back and then another trial session where the training goes on for even longer than the previous trial and see how the dog does.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=416.6s	416.6	 Now I find that when you vary what you do in training sessions, for example training a few different behaviors in the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=424.7s	424.7	 session, that can actually help dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=427.8s	427.8	 work for longer in training sessions where if you work on the same behavior for two minutes dogs can get bored
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=434.6s	434.6	 depending on the behavior. For most dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=437.0s	437.0	 I suggest the majority of training sessions be between 30 seconds and 5 minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=441.7s	441.7	 but then you might want to do a much longer training session because you've gone to a field where you want to work with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=448.1s	448.1	 and then you work with your dog for 20 minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=450.5s	450.5	 and the dog could be fine with that. Some dogs can work forever like my border collies here and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=456.6s	456.6	 that brings up a really important fact that they can work more than they should.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=461.7s	461.7	 So I like to set a timer when I do active behaviors so that I don't overwork them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=467.1s	467.1	 One thing I also do is play a song on my phone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=470.2s	470.2	 so when the song ends I know about how long I've been training because sometimes I can get a little bit carried away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=476.5s	476.5	 So it's important to keep in mind that when you're working with dogs that can just keep going.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=483.4s	483.4	 And finally I want to mention that this video is dedicated to my YouTube sponsor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=488.4s	488.4	 Shiva Akin. Because of her and my other YouTube sponsors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=492.2s	492.2	 I am able to create videos for the general public on how to train your dog without the use of physical or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZMOKYZEi7c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=233&pp=iAQB&t=499.8s	499.8	 psychological intimidation. So thank you so much to all my sponsors. See you later guys!
