https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 In this video I'm going to show you how you can teach your puppy to be polite with food around other dogs and wait their turn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=7.3s	7.3	 when you're giving out treats for either fun or for training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=11.8s	11.8	 Okay, so it's really important to teach your dog how to take treats and I'll have a link in the description on a tutorial on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=19.0s	19.0	 how to teach your dog to take treats nicely and also how to understand the treat delivery.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=24.8s	24.8	 So this little puppy knows that if he's laying calmly I can go and place the treat between his paws like that and he can eat the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 This treat delivery where your puppy's laying down and you're putting the treat down on the ground is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=37.4s	37.4	 easiest position to begin with because if your puppy is standing up they naturally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=41.7s	41.7	 gravitate to where the treat is so if you're going to try and feed another dog while your puppy's standing up it can be harder.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 If you just have one adult dog and they're not used to sharing treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=51.0s	51.0	 here's a game you can play with the dogs separately before trying the game together and then when you do try the game together if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=57.7s	57.7	 you're worried your dogs might get over excited or want to rush over to each other you can have them on a leash and harness or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=63.9s	63.9	 have two people hold them so they're at a distance and they can't reach each other if they think they might want to get up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=69.4s	69.4	 get the treat the other dog is getting. So you put a cup down on the ground like this and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=74.6s	74.6	 feed your dog a treat for staying in the position as the cup goes down and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=78.6s	78.6	 then as you reach to put a treat in the cup you give the puppy a treat and you can use a marker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=89.8s	89.8	 Then when your puppy gets better at this you can put a treat into the cup and then give him a treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=98.2s	98.2	 Now I'm going to use the same hand to go into the cup and then to him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=102.2s	102.2	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=105.9s	105.9	 Good!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=107.3s	107.3	 Once your puppy is successful with this game you can then add the other dog and play the same game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=113.2s	113.2	 You might need to have your dogs further away than I'm showing in this video at first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=117.3s	117.3	 I just wanted to get both dogs in the shot. If one of the dogs gets up and gravitates towards the other dog's treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 I suggest luring the dog back into position and then making the next step easier. So going back to feeding both dogs at the same time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=131.6s	131.6	 If you have a dog that guards food and you think might become aggressive with this game it's important to contact a positive reinforcement trainer to help you with this exercise as you might not be able to read the warning signs that the exercise is too stressful for your dog and it could lead to your dog getting worse with his guarding rather than better.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=158.3s	158.3	 The next step is changing things up and practicing this exercise in different situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=163.6s	163.6	 For example with the dogs in different positions as well as in different locations and with different types of treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=172.0s	172.0	 I hope you found this tutorial helpful for your training. If you'd like to support my work don't forget to like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=178.4s	178.4	 comment and subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join button.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H1kuBjHuN-w&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=185.4s	185.4	 Thanks to all my existing members. See you later guys.
