https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 The first thing you want to do when using food is teach your puppy how to take the treat out of your hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=4.9s	4.9	 Some puppies won't find the treat very quickly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=7.4s	7.4	 so if you're trying to train them something then it interferes with the training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=11.2s	11.2	 So make sure that they can find the treat immediately and eat it. Also if you're going to be using treats on the floor,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=16.8s	16.8	 teach your puppy to find the treat. I like to use a pointing gesture to help them out if they can't find it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=24.1s	24.1	 Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=25.6s	25.6	 With young puppies or new rescue dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=27.9s	27.9	 I don't like to use the lure right near their face to begin with because what happens is you get the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 frustrated and trying to get the treat out of your hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=35.8s	35.8	 So I suggest instead luring the dog from a distance up above at first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=42.1s	42.1	 It really depends on your puppy's personality as to what behaviors you'll work on first. If you have a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=48.0s	48.0	 that's very shy and reserved, I don't suggest working on that game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=52.1s	52.1	 which is no mugging where you get the puppy to back away from your hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=55.6s	55.6	 Then reinforce. Instead, I suggest teaching that puppy if they're worried about hands to touch your fingers and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 receive a treat for that. So I'll link a tutorial on how to train that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=67.0s	67.0	 That is a great exercise for puppies that are a little bit worried and reserved as well as teaching the puppy to like handling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=74.0s	74.0	 So conditioning, handling to be something positive is one of the first things you work on with your puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=80.0s	80.0	 If your puppy is not that interested in food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 I don't suggest working on leave-it exercises right away. Instead, I suggest working on attention games.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=89.9s	89.9	 Recall exercises where your puppy is running towards you and being reinforced with food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=97.4s	97.4	 If your puppy doesn't seem that interested in food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=99.8s	99.8	 I suggest one of the first games that you play is an attention game where you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=104.5s	104.5	 motivating your puppy to want to move towards you and move towards the food rather than a no mugging or a leave-it game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=111.2s	111.2	 Are you ready puppy? So you move away from your puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=115.1s	115.1	 click as they come towards you or mark with a marker word and then drop another treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=122.1s	122.1	 Boy, oh boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=125.5s	125.5	 Awesome. If your puppy was really not interested in food, you could also toss the treats to make them more exciting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=132.1s	132.1	 Woo, like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=134.4s	134.4	 It helps if you use treats that are a different color than the surface of the floor so your puppy finds them easier to find.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=141.2s	141.2	 Good job puppy. Woo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=143.4s	143.4	 If you have a puppy that is over excited about the food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=146.3s	146.3	 I suggest using low value treats like his kibble to train with it first and work on impulse control games,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=153.8s	153.8	 calmness around food and the settle. Now, I suggest working on the settle with all puppies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=160.1s	160.1	 Check out the written description for this video with links to video tutorials on how to train the specific behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8eMRHYjU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=252&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 I talked about in this video.
