https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi guys, this video is for those of you with a dog, especially with sound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=4.4s	4.4	 sensitivities and smoke detectors installed in your house. Now maybe your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=8.8s	8.8	 smoke detectors have never gone off, but if they do go off or the battery goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=13.2s	13.2	 low and they start making that beeping sound while you're gone, it can actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=16.9s	16.9	 scare dogs that don't even have a problem with noises because they're just so loud.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=21.9s	21.9	 This video I'm going to show you how you can teach your dog that strange noises
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 that happen working up to the smoke detector are totally fine and nothing to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=32.3s	32.3	 worry about. When I work with dogs with sound sensitivities I like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=36.3s	36.3	 concentrate on three aspects of the noise. One, the volume. Most dogs will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=41.0s	41.0	 become fearful if they hear an extremely loud noise like a smoke detector, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=45.0s	45.0	 there are also other dogs that can become fearful if they hear a barely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=48.5s	48.5	 audible noise and in fact the smoke detector does make this noise. If the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=53.0s	53.0	 batteries start running out, most smoke detectors make a little beeping noise to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=57.6s	57.6	 tell you to change the battery and this actually can cause a fearful response in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=62.0s	62.0	 a lot of dogs. The second aspect is that the dog can't figure out where the noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=67.3s	67.3	 is coming from. That can cause a fearful response in lots of dogs. It could also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=72.3s	72.3	 be the destination of where the noise is coming from. And the third aspect is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=77.4s	77.4	 the dog is not expecting the sound to happen and that the sound startles the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 If you were simply to press the button on the smoke detector and make the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=85.6s	85.6	 extremely loud noise, your dog could have an extremely fearful response. So I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=90.1s	90.1	 suggest playing training games where you break the steps up and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=94.0s	94.0	 conditioning into small enough steps that your dog is having a positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=98.0s	98.0	 emotional response each step of the way. Instead of using the smoke detector in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=102.6s	102.6	 the first step, I suggest using a phone or a computer where you can change the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=106.9s	106.9	 level of the volume of the noises that you're making. So I have just got the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=110.8s	110.8	 ringtones on my phone and I'm gonna play one of the ringtones at a very low
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 volume and I've got some treats ready so I'm gonna play the noise and then feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=120.1s	120.1	 a treat. So for some dogs they get more frightened of a sudden sharp sounding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=125.9s	125.9	 noise that starts and ends very quickly. So you can start with a longer noise so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=130.6s	130.6	 choose a ringtone that goes on and on and on. So I've chosen this one and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 I'm gonna feed my dog a treat. Play the noise then feed a treat. If you had a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 dog that was extremely sound sensitive you could get someone else to play the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=153.5s	153.5	 noise and you feed your dog a treat while you're at a distance from that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=157.4s	157.4	 person. You don't need to use a marker like a clicker because the noise is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 going to predict that you're going to feed a treat. Now I'm gonna try a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=169.7s	169.7	 different noise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=180.7s	180.7	 If your dog is comfortable you can increase the volume and then play the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=185.5s	185.5	 game again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=196.2s	196.2	 The next step is working on the second aspect of the noise, the destination. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=211.0s	211.0	 easier if you have a helper they can walk around the room playing the noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=214.7s	214.7	 as you feed the dog. Then when your dog is successful with that and not showing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=218.9s	218.9	 fear or startle you can have that person leave the room, play the noise and come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=223.1s	223.1	 back and play the noise from different rooms in the house. Then you can move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=226.9s	226.9	 your dog to different rooms and have the person move into other rooms and play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 different noises on their phone or the computer. During the initial training you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=235.4s	235.4	 want to make the noises very close together because this means the dog will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=239.4s	239.4	 find it very predictable that the noises are going to happen. So I wouldn't wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=243.2s	243.2	 longer than 20 seconds to replay the noise because this is the final step. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=247.7s	247.7	 final step is practicing this game with the dog and then waiting a couple of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=252.1s	252.1	 minutes and then playing the noise and then feeding a treat because this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=256.2s	256.2	 another aspect that the dog can become fearful of if they're not predicting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=260.1s	260.1	 that the noise will happen. So you want to use noises that they've already had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=263.7s	263.7	 this training with to play randomly throughout the day. The reason that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=268.3s	268.3	 don't like to use the smoke detector right off the bat is it's harder to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=271.3s	271.3	 control the volume, it's also harder to turn it on and off like you can with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=275.6s	275.6	 phone and the computer and if you go too far too quickly and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=280.5s	280.5	 does have a fearful response it's the noise that the smoke detector makes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=284.4s	284.4	 where if you made a mistake with your phone then you could simply just not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=288.5s	288.5	 play that noise again. Then when your dog understands the concept of noises coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=293.4s	293.4	 from different places it's much easier to work on the one noise that you really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 want the dog to not have a fearful response to. Once you've had success with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=301.6s	301.6	 the noises from your phone or computer you can move on to the smoke detector. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 suggest wrapping it in a towel and if you have a helper it's much better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=309.2s	309.2	 because the helper can sit further away from the dog and work the smoke
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=312.8s	312.8	 detector while you concentrate on feeding your dog after they hear the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=316.7s	316.7	 noise. So I've got the smoke detector under this towel I'm gonna press it and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=322.5s	322.5	 then feed my treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=326.0s	326.0	 Good job. Good girl. Depending on your dog it might take quite a few training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=346.9s	346.9	 sessions to get to the point where you can play the smoke detector at full
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=350.2s	350.2	 volume. Now keep in mind this hurts a lot so I don't suggest putting the smoke
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=355.1s	355.1	 detector on for a long period of time because you're gonna hurt your own ears
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=358.5s	358.5	 and your dog's ears. So I'm gonna play it and then feed a treat. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 Oh my goodness that's loud. If you have a dog that finds toys extremely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=373.5s	373.5	 reinforcing maybe even more than food you can use toys as well with this game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=377.7s	377.7	 So I've got the smoke detector in the towel I've got the toy here I'm gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=382.3s	382.3	 press the smoke detector and then I'm gonna throw the toy. Catch it. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=386.8s	386.8	 Good job. Are you ready? Put the toy back. Are you ready? I'm gonna make the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=392.7s	392.7	 noise. Yeah catch it. Good girl. And you can play with your dog too to make it a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=400.1s	400.1	 fun game if they get a little bit weirded out by the noise. I'm gonna make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=405.3s	405.3	 the noise. Ready? I'm gonna make a noise. Good job. Ready? I'm gonna make a noise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=414.1s	414.1	 Catch it. Good girl. Okay now I'm gonna make it really loud. Are you ready?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=421.2s	421.2	 Are you ready for Freddy? Yeah! Are you ready for Freddy? Catch it. Boom. Ready? Catch it. Good. Spin. Catch it. Good girl, Wishy. You did so good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=442.3s	442.3	 I hope this video was helpful for you. If you'd like to support my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=446.7s	446.7	 don't forget to like, comment and subscribe and also there's a join button if you'd
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYsZhCLvE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=254&pp=iAQB&t=451.4s	451.4	 like to become a member of channel Kikopup. Bye guys!
