https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey YouTube, today I want to share with you the formula that I teach my students so they can create a training plan in order to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=6.6s	6.6	 solve unwanted behavior problems. The formula spells out the word TRIP, T-R-I-P, and stands for Teach, Reinforce,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=15.1s	15.1	 Interrupt, Prevent. So whenever you have a problem situation,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=19.0s	19.0	 you think of the four categories of TRIP and then you make a training plan for each category.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=24.5s	24.5	 So the first category is Teach.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=27.0s	27.0	 What behavior is your dog doing that you dislike?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=30.3s	30.3	 What behavior would you like your dog to do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 So you think about the behavior you would like your dog to do and you train it in training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=37.4s	37.4	 So for example, if you don't want your dog to lay on your couch,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=40.8s	40.8	 you train them to lay in the dog bed and you reinforce it in training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=45.4s	45.4	 You can even add a verbal cue for the behavior so you can tell your dog to go to his bed. The second category is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=52.0s	52.0	 Reinforce. There are behaviors that your dogs are already doing that you can reinforce and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 you can also reinforce the absence of the undesirable behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 So what do I mean by this? For example, if you're on a walk and your dog barks at other dogs on the walk,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=68.8s	68.8	 what you can do is when the dog sees the other dog, they're still on a loose leash and they're not barking, you can actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=75.7s	75.7	 reinforce that behavior instead of the barking. The third category is Interrupt.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 What are you going to do to interrupt your dog if they were to offer the undesired behavior?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=85.8s	85.8	 So you could then redirect your dog to doing a more appropriate behavior. There are many ways to interrupt behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 It's a misconception that you need to use physical or psychological intimidation in order to do this. Instead,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=98.2s	98.2	 you can train interruptor cues. For example, a kissy noise or an attention noise, your recall.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=104.3s	104.3	 You can train a leave it cue. You can teach your dog a stationing behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 For example, you can say go to your bed or go to your crate in order to interrupt them from doing a behavior you dislike.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=114.3s	114.3	 So basically you train all these cues to stop your dog doing what you dislike and then you can give your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=120.9s	120.9	 information on what you would like your dog to be doing. Now the important thing with behavior modification
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=127.1s	127.1	 is the focus is not on the problem behavior, but replacing that problem behavior with the desired behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=134.0s	134.0	 So the last category is called Prevent. You want to create a prevention plan to prevent your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=141.2s	141.2	 rehearsing the undesirable behavior throughout the day while you're training your dog what you do want them to do in the same scenario.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=148.5s	148.5	 So for example, if your dog jumps on guests, you're not going to have your dog loose and just see what happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=154.3s	154.3	 You're going to have your dog on a leash until your dog has calmed down and is relaxed and is more likely to not jump on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=160.5s	160.5	 the guests when meeting them. Or for example, if your dog barks all day long at the gate,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=165.7s	165.7	 instead you could have your dog inside with the blinds closed and music on until you teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=171.1s	171.1	 not to bark at the gate in training sessions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 It's really important to remember with a behavior modification plan that the focus is not on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=180.3s	180.3	 interrupting and preventing the behavior, but the focus is on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=184.3s	184.3	 building the new behavior to be stronger than the older behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=189.0s	189.0	 So you're going to be focusing on what you do want your animal to do,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=193.5s	193.5	 training and reinforcing it rather than simply interrupting and preventing because what can happen is even if the behavior goes away,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=201.6s	201.6	 there's a vacuum and your animal doesn't know what to do in that circumstance besides that one behavior he did.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=208.5s	208.5	 So for example, if it was jumping, he might then think to start barking for attention or jumping harder since
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4ASIKw-urY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=278&pp=iAQB&t=215.9s	215.9	 jumping just a little bit didn't work.
