https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey everybody today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=1.4s	1.4	 I'm going to show you how you can train a default leave it from a treat container or a big bag so that your dog isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=7.6s	7.6	 Distracted by them during your training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=10.0s	10.0	 The first step is simply marking your dog's choice to think to back away from the treat container on his own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=17.2s	17.2	 Now if you think your dog is going to hurt you you can use a larger container where you can keep your hands out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=22.6s	22.6	 Reach use very low value treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=24.7s	24.7	 You could even use carrots at first or kibble and then use high value treats in your pocket that you're going to reinforce your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=31.5s	31.5	 For but if your dog isn't that excited about treats you can just use whatever treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=36.1s	36.1	 But use a lid at first and what you're going to do is allow your dog to try and get the treats out of the container
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=42.9s	42.9	 He's going to sniff at it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=44.3s	44.3	 He might paw at it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=45.4s	45.4	 And then the moment that you're going to reinforce is when the dog thinks to back away from the treats on his own or look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=52.9s	52.9	 Away from the treats briefly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 Even if it's a mistake your dog hears a noise and they look in the other direction you can take that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=61.4s	61.4	 What you don't want to do is reinforce your dog for staying in one position so if my dog keeps laying down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=68.7s	68.7	 After backing away you want to just reset them by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=72.5s	72.5	 Dropping a treat further away you also don't want to be feeding your dog the treat too close to the container
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=78.1s	78.1	 Or you can get them fixated on on the container or your bait bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=82.4s	82.4	 So after they backed away you can feed them back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=86.4s	86.4	 The next step is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=88.6s	88.6	 Getting rid of the initial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=91.0s	91.0	 Checking out your treat bag so you present the treats mark and reinforce your dog for staying back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=98.0s	98.0	 So your dog is learning that the best place to receive treats is at a specific distance from you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=103.8s	103.8	 if you don't want your dog in your face or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=106.8s	106.8	 Next to the like hanging over the treats container you can reinforce back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=111.5s	111.5	 I want the dog to be about here so I can see what they're doing while I'm training them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=118.3s	118.3	 So you're just gonna mark and reinforce multiple times for your dog not thinking to come forwards towards the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=126.3s	126.3	 You can practice with the bait bag as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=136.2s	136.2	 The tug can get pretty excited about these treats. It's high value chicken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=145.0s	145.0	 Final step is making sure that your dog is not looking at the treat bag when you're marking and reinforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=151.0s	151.0	 So I'm gonna have the treat bag here have some treats in my hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=157.4s	157.4	 And I'm gonna mark my dog looking at me rather than at the bait bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=162.2s	162.2	 If you want to get really advanced you can also work on your dog looking at you when you reach into the bait bag
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=168.2s	168.2	 So tug finds this extremely distracting, especially when it makes a rustling noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTLuEz3wiUI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=310&pp=iAQB&t=173.6s	173.6	 I'm just gonna wait and keep making that rustling noise until he finally thinks to look away and look back at me
