https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi guys today, I'm going to show you how I taught Splash to loop in a circle around me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=4.3s	4.3	 This is an example I use in my seminars to show how you can add two tricks together to come up with something unique
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=10.5s	10.5	 for your canine freestyle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=12.5s	12.5	 frisbee or trick dogging routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=15.1s	15.1	 So the basics are you train the two behaviors that you're going to add together and prove them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=20.8s	20.8	 so in this example limping and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=24.1s	24.1	 Going around you in a circle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=26.2s	26.2	 To teach your dog to circle you you can lure your dog around you mark the movement and feed just a little bit ahead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=33.6s	33.6	 Of your dog so your dog isn't stopping when he hears the marker when adding tricks together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=38.5s	38.5	 It's important to overtrain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=39.9s	39.9	 So if you're going to have your dog limp around you one time then I suggest seeing if your dog can confidently
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=45.9s	45.9	 Circle you five times without limping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 It's a good idea to teach your dog to circle to the left and the right as well as limp on the left and the right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=54.3s	54.3	 So both sides of your dog's body are getting an equal workout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=59.8s	59.8	 It's gonna take a few weeks of practice for your dog to have the strength to be able to limp a couple of steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 Keep training sessions short and fun and don't forget to practice on a non-slip surface
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=71.2s	71.2	 One way that I train this behavior is to ask for a paw target and then lure the dog forwards with food or a toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=79.3s	79.3	 At first it's gonna look like just a stutter step forwards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=84.2s	84.2	 The key to adding two tricks together to come up with a unique trick is reducing criteria drastically when adding the two tricks together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=92.3s	92.3	 To do this revert back to using your lure and target and a high rate of reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=97.5s	97.5	 I find it extremely helpful to have both behaviors on a verbal cue before adding them together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRlOf9nYjKs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=330&pp=iAQB&t=107.0s	107.0	 The final step is fading your lure and hand target
