https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey everybody, I'm going to show you how you can teach your dog his left paw from his right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 paw and also give you a creative targeting tip if you have that dog that just won't offer his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=10.3s	10.3	 other paw. So he always uses his left paw or he always uses his right paw and you just can't seem
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 to get the other paw. Now before I do the tutorial I quickly want to talk about this awesome conference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 that's coming up really soon. It's November 7th through 11th and it's in Tampa Florida. It's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=26.5s	26.5	 Pet Professional Guild's annual summit and one of the lecture labs that I'm doing there is called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=33.4s	33.4	 Creative Targeting and we won't be doing this exercise but we will be doing cue discrimination
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=39.2s	39.2	 with targeting. Now I know there's a couple tickets left for the conference as well as some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=45.3s	45.3	 space in the labs and I just want to show you on this screen the amazing other presenters that are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 going to be there. I'm just so honored to be included amongst them all. If you have the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=57.4s	57.4	 that will offer both paws when you wiggle a treat that's in your hand or you ask your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=63.3s	63.3	 shake your hand, Kiko is like that, she will offer one or two different paws, then you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=69.8s	69.8	 use this method. You hold your left hand out to your dog's right paw and click and reinforce if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=77.4s	77.4	 your dog hits with the correct paw. If the dog hits with the other paw, no big deal, you just don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=83.5s	83.5	 click. Then when your dog's got that side you hold the treat out to your dog's left side and if the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=91.2s	91.2	 dog hits your hand with the correct paw, click and treat. Once your dog is reliably offering the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=97.4s	97.4	 correct paw for the correct hand then you can add your verbal cue. So you're just going to say the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=103.6s	103.6	 verbal cue before you move your hand. Are you ready Tunk? I'm going to say wave, good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=112.0s	112.0	 wait for it. Now if you have a dog that offers behavior you can also mark and reinforce the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 dog for waiting until you give the dog the cue. Good job. So you can see when I wait he looks at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=124.8s	124.8	 my eyes. Good. Are you ready? Bye, good. Now I'm going to click them before he thinks to offer any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=133.8s	133.8	 more footwork. Okay, wave, good. Bye, good. Bye, good. Wave, good. Bye, good. Bye, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=152.2s	152.2	 If your dog is just not thinking to offer one of his paws you can use this technique. The first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=157.4s	157.4	 step is teaching your dog to put two feet up on a stool or a platform. So you can use simple luring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=162.8s	162.8	 and click and reinforce your dog for putting his feet up there and then keeping his feet up there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=168.9s	168.9	 Three, good job. You could add a verbal cue if you want but when you move on to the next step you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=176.1s	176.1	 want at least that your dog is offering putting his two front feet up there when he's sitting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=181.9s	181.9	 So that he sees the platform. So when your dog is reliably moving to the platform and putting his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=188.2s	188.2	 two feet on it then you can see if you can capture the foot that you're having trouble with. So let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=194.5s	194.5	 pretend that his foot is the left foot. So what I'm going to do is position the platform in a way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=200.5s	200.5	 that most likely he'll step up first with his left foot and then I'm going to lure him. He is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=207.9s	207.9	 right footed so he's probably going to try and use his right foot to go up on the platform but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=213.3s	213.3	 I'm going to see if I can get him to step up with his left foot. So there. At first it's going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=219.3s	219.3	 a little bit of a confusion for your dog but anytime you see the correct foot move you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=227.5s	227.5	 going to click and reinforce. So even though the foot isn't going all the way on the platform
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=232.2s	232.2	 it's his left foot that I'm clicking the movement of.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=244.9s	244.9	 Once your dog is reliably stepping up with the correct foot you can then start to have the target
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 at an angle and then hold the target higher up and then add a verbal cue to it. Remove the target
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=256.1s	256.1	 and see if your dog will offer the same pawing behavior with your hand on the same verbal cue.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=261.3s	261.3	 Are you ready, tug?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=273.0s	273.0	 Good. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=278.1s	278.1	 Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=282.3s	282.3	 Good. Well done. Yay. Bye. Awesome. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=290.6s	290.6	 Ready? Back up. So pretty.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIR3MtTSyIw&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=336&pp=iAQB&t=298.6s	298.6	 Good boy.
