https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey YouTube! A lot of you have been asking me how I trim my dog's nails and how frequently.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=6.4s	6.4	 I like to trim my dog's nails every week and this is really important for training too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=11.6s	11.6	 because if your dog's getting their nails done weekly, they're not going to build up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=15.4s	15.4	 any fear of having their feet touched once you've conditioned your dog to love having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=20.1s	20.1	 their nails trimmed. So one of my tricks for teaching nail trimming is teaching the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=24.4s	24.4	 to play dead, do the trick of play dead in your lap. And that way, when you handle their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=29.5s	29.5	 feet, they're not looking at what you're doing and you can build calm, the dog being calm and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=36.8s	36.8	 relaxed while you're trimming their nails. When properly trimmed, your dog's toenails shouldn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=42.7s	42.7	 touch the ground when they're standing still or when they're walking. If you can hear your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=47.8s	47.8	 toenails touching the ground when they're walking in your house, it's time to trim their nails.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 Long nails can be very painful for your dog to walk on and because everything's connected,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=63.2s	63.2	 long nails can affect your dog's behavior. I like to use both clippers and a dremel to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=69.8s	69.8	 my dog's nails. First I clip them and then I smooth them out with the dremel. By only training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=78.6s	78.6	 with positive reinforcement, you can see here that Splash actually loves having her nails
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=82.8s	82.8	 trimmed and I can't get rid of her. I find by having the dog upside down that it's much easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=101.6s	101.6	 to see where the quick is, the little pink part inside the nail that you're not supposed to cut.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=106.2s	106.2	 From underneath it looks like a little horseshoe. You don't want to cut that part but you can sand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=112.4s	112.4	 down the two little sides where you can see dirt has collected. If your dog's quicks are too long,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=117.5s	117.5	 you can get them to move back by cutting your dog's nail like this. In this way you can chase
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 back the quick and help your dog's nails get shorter and more comfortable. I personally prefer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=130.1s	130.1	 the dremel for making dog's nails as short as possible because I don't trust myself with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=135.0s	135.0	 clippers. If you only have clippers or if your dog is still very scared of the dremel, I like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=140.4s	140.4	 use this technique which is to take off tiny little shavings of the nail at a time. I've also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=145.5s	145.5	 found that a lot of dogs prefer when you cut off little shavings rather than when you cut off a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=150.0s	150.0	 huge chunk of nail. Here you can see the finished nail next to one that I haven't worked on yet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=156.3s	156.3	 To dremel the nails, first I clip off the excess nail with the clippers. Then I sand either side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=163.3s	163.3	 of the nail from the bottom to get rid of those edges where the dirt collects underneath. I find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=170.0s	170.0	 that by holding the dog's paw firmly and adding firm pressure with the dremel, it's less ticklish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 for them. Then I take strokes moving from the bottom of the nail to the top of the nail until
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=186.0s	186.0	 the nail looks like this. I hope this video has made you excited about trimming your dog's nails.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBLKi6lj1s&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=193.6s	193.6	 Don't forget to subscribe for more free dog training videos.
