https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hey YouTube! Today's tip is on house training. A lot of people want to train their dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=5.2s	5.2	 let them know when they need to go to the bathroom either by ringing a bell, ringing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 a buzzer, or tapping on the door with their paw. Now this can go well and your dog can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=14.9s	14.9	 only tell you when they need to go to the bathroom by tapping on the door or ringing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=18.4s	18.4	 the buzzer. However, dogs can also learn that anytime they ring that bell, you come running
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=24.0s	24.0	 over and give them 100% of your attention. So, if a dog figures that out, they can actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=29.5s	29.5	 start to ring the buzzer to get your attention. Or, they can figure out if they want to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 outside to play, they can ring the buzzer. A lot of owners might find that their dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=38.7s	38.7	 is suddenly ringing the bell all the time and not every time going to the bathroom.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=43.7s	43.7	 So, in my opinion, instead of teaching the dog to ring the bell right in the beginning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=49.3s	49.3	 when you're first house training your dog, I believe you should train your dog to love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=54.4s	54.4	 outside and find going to the bathroom outside highly reinforcing before you introduce something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=60.3s	60.3	 like a bell or a buzzer for your dog to let you know when he needs to go out. How do you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 do this? You're going to take your puppy or new rescue dog out every hour and use management
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=72.2s	72.2	 and prevention in between. I have another house training video which you can watch on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=77.3s	77.3	 basic house training. But you're going to take your dog out very frequently and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=81.1s	81.1	 gradually increase the time period between the times that you take your dog out. So,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=86.4s	86.4	 your dog's not going to need to tell you when he needs to go out because you're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=90.1s	90.1	 be taking him out before he thinks he needs to go. And the great thing about this is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=95.4s	95.4	 if you live in an apartment, maybe your dog can't go out every time he needs to go out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=101.0s	101.0	 So teaching him to wait until you take him out is a great idea. Now, when your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=105.7s	105.7	 house trained, then it's a great idea to figure out if your dog is trying to tell you that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=111.2s	111.2	 they need to go to the bathroom. Maybe your dog went to the beach and drank a lot of water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 and they really need to go to the bathroom. Or maybe their dog is feeling sick and they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=118.9s	118.9	 want to be sick outside. It would be really great for them to tell you so you don't have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=123.3s	123.3	 a mess to clean up, but also for the dog's best interests. So, some dogs naturally offer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 a behavior that tells you that they need to go out. Some dogs will go and stand by the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=134.9s	134.9	 door and whine. They'll come and prod you. My dog, one of my dogs actually growls at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=140.4s	140.4	 me when she needs to go out very badly. Dogs will figure out their own way of telling you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=146.2s	146.2	 However, if you're busy and you need your dog to make a signal that's very loud, then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=152.2s	152.2	 when your dog is used to going out to the bathroom and prefers going out to the bathroom,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=156.6s	156.6	 you can start to introduce the bell or a buzzer or tapping on the door. However, I personally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=162.9s	162.9	 wouldn't choose tapping on the door because then you can actually, if you have a bigger
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=166.3s	166.3	 dog, your door can get ruined. See you next time. Here's a link to the house training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_EkmJT8miE&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=171.6s	171.6	 video that I talked about earlier. Don't forget to subscribe for more free dog training videos.
