https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Rear end awareness, the key to complex tricks. This is a video on teaching the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 rear end awareness exercise which is not only a good exercise for teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=9.6s	9.6	 bodily and spatial awareness but it's also a great exercise to use as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 foundation for teaching complex tricks. For my seminars in Sweden, Canada, North
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=20.5s	20.5	 America and Colombia this is going to be your homework in preparation for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 part of the seminar that's going to be teaching complex tricks. So please give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=29.4s	29.4	 this a try and work on it at least a couple weeks in advance to the seminar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=33.8s	33.8	 when I get to see you guys. Step one, teach step up. You can use free shaping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=41.2s	41.2	 to train this behavior but I'm going to show you how you can use luring in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=44.7s	44.7	 video. You simply have to take a treat and lure your dog onto a stable platform
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 like a book. Click as the first paw goes on and feed a treat and then click for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 the next paw. Practice having the dog approach the book from different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=59.4s	59.4	 directions. From your left side in heel position, from your right side and while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=64.7s	64.7	 the dog is maintaining a position in front of you. Now put the book on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=68.6s	68.6	 ground and see if the dog will offer stepping onto the book without being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=72.3s	72.3	 lured. Click as the dog chooses to step up and also click for the dog maintaining
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=78.0s	78.0	 the position on the book. Step two, click one side step. While the dog is standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 on the book, lure the dog's face to the left or the right and click the action
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=90.2s	90.2	 of the back feet taking one side step. Some dogs have natural rear end
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=95.6s	95.6	 awareness while others need time to build up the muscle memory for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=99.6s	99.6	 behavior. Here is one technique that I use for a dog that is struggling. Stand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=104.3s	104.3	 parallel to the dog to create a barrier and pull the treat around your body so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=109.6s	109.6	 the dog has to look around the corner of your body. As they do this their back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=113.9s	113.9	 feet should move. At first click any back foot movement even if the front feet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=118.7s	118.7	 step off of the book. Step three, switch directions. Once your dog can do a couple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=126.1s	126.1	 side steps in one direction switch and go the other way. This is not only good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=130.2s	130.2	 for their muscles and bodily awareness but if you work on one side too long the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=134.2s	134.2	 dog can become dominant with that side and find it difficult to learn the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 opposite direction. Step four, complete a circle. As your dog succeeds you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=145.3s	145.3	 keep raising the criteria so having the dog move in an entire circle before you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=150.0s	150.0	 click. You can also practice having the dog in different positions as they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=153.7s	153.7	 sidestep. In front of you, on your left side, on your right side and rotating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=159.4s	159.4	 around the book on their own. Step five, keep raising criteria. As you raise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=167.3s	167.3	 criteria you still want to remain unpredictable so the dog never knows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=171.6s	171.6	 when they're going to get their click. If your dog knows you're always going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=175.6s	175.6	 ask for three rotations before they get a click the behavior will fall apart. Here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=180.0s	180.0	 you can see me demoing the process of getting rid of the lure. Lure the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=184.5s	184.5	 click and treat. Then pretend to have a treat, lure, click and treat. The next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=189.5s	189.5	 step is having your hand higher and higher until your hand is behind your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=193.3s	193.3	 back and your dog is offering the sidestep. Don't always make it harder and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=197.9s	197.9	 harder. You can always revert back to the lure or have the hand as a guide. Here is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=205.1s	205.1	 the same process of removing the lure with a tiny dog. As you can see I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=209.6s	209.6	 luring and reinforcing the dog on the outside of her body rather than next to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=214.1s	214.1	 my leg. This is to promote the dog staying parallel to my leg. The final
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=220.4s	220.4	 step is removing the book and reinforcing the same behavior. So at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=226.8s	226.8	 first you would click just one sidestep without the book and then multiple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=232.3s	232.3	 sidesteps. This is how to add a verbal cue to the behavior of free rotation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=242.4s	242.4	 First lure with a treat, then with a pretend treat and then make your hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=251.5s	251.5	 signal less and less obvious. The next step is saying a cue or before you give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 the hand signal and then just saying the cue itself. Check out my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=263.7s	263.7	 video on how to add a verbal cue if you don't know how to do this. There are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=270.7s	270.7	 endless behaviors that you can train utilizing the rear end awareness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=274.2s	274.2	 exercise. For example heel work and canine freestyle behaviors as well as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=279.9s	279.9	 any behavior that is trained using a technique I like to call backwards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdlauKbbA2o&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=494&pp=iAQB&t=284.0s	284.0	 luring. See you next time and don't forget to subscribe to Channel Kikopup.
