https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Leash walking tips. Here is footage of Bella before she had any training. The leash was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 constantly tight and she was running around in circles. So the first step before hitting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=10.4s	10.4	 the street was to work in an environment where she was able to take food and be successful.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 So here I am clicking her for catching up to me and feeding her at my side. As she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 eating I'm walking off to give myself time to be ahead of her before she catches up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=28.4s	28.4	 When she does go past me I simply back up or turn around until she's next to me again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=35.4s	35.4	 Here you can see Bella tries to cross behind me but instead of jerking her I just create
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=40.1s	40.1	 less leash so she can't get to the other side. Her reward for walking on a leaf's leash is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=46.9s	46.9	 to get to sniff the bushes. I let her sniff for a while and then I tell her let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=54.0s	54.0	 and click and treat her for coming with me. The moment I clicked is when she chose to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=58.8s	58.8	 come with me. Here's footage of Lucas a basset hound playing the same game. I'm clicking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=64.5s	64.5	 him for catching up to me and treating him at my side as he gets there. Now that we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=71.9s	71.9	 outside Bella's too excited to take treats so the method that I'm using is if she pulls
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=79.2s	79.2	 I'm simply going to back up and then move forwards again when the leash is loose. Even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=84.1s	84.1	 though she's not that interested in the food I'm still going to offer her food when she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=88.1s	88.1	 doing the correct behavior. Here she's taking it but most of the walk she was not taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=93.6s	93.6	 the food. Because Bella and I had just worked on leash walking in an environment where she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=100.6s	100.6	 could concentrate we're having way more success on the first walk outside where she can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=106.4s	106.4	 take food. When she does pull I'm simply just going to stop, walk backwards until she willingly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=113.7s	113.7	 wants to come with me and then when the leash is loose we're going to walk forwards again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=117.9s	117.9	 You can encourage your dog back with your voice and patting your leg. Without prior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=122.2s	122.2	 training on a walk when a person stops the dog will usually walk towards the end of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=126.9s	126.9	 leash and start pulling. So to teach the dog to stop when you stop, walk forwards a step,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=132.9s	132.9	 click as the dog gets to you and click and feed again for the dog staying with you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=139.0s	139.0	 Then take another step. As long as the leash is loose it is perfectly appropriate to let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=145.1s	145.1	 the dog sniff around as you're walking. However if they are to pull you can back away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=150.8s	150.8	 what they're sniffing and then when the leash is loose again start walking forwards. A walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=157.5s	157.5	 should be about fulfilling a dog's needs as well as a human's needs. Dogs need not only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=162.7s	162.7	 physical exercise but also mental stimulation as well and sniffing fulfills a big part of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZCIeEUm_n8&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=519&pp=iAQB&t=168.7s	168.7	 that.
