https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone today I'm going to be talking about how to get back on track with training heel work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=5.0s	5.0	 when you've taken a break or your dog is just too excited so maybe you woke up early and it's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=11.8s	11.8	 chilly and the dog is very excited because it's cold or as I have I've been sick for a whole like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=18.9s	18.9	 30 days and I haven't trained my dogs they've been playing just playing with other people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=23.9s	23.9	 while I've been sick in bed and now I want to get back on track with training heel work and double
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=30.2s	30.2	 dog heel work and I'm going to be using positive reinforcement so what normally would happen if you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=36.2s	36.2	 say we're a compulsion trainer is you'd have to start giving corrections because the dog is too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=40.8s	40.8	 excited and the dog you know is going to break position or start whining and barking so she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=48.2s	48.2	 actually shivering because she knows what I am talking about so my guys instead of getting right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=56.4s	56.4	 into heel work where halo would start to he sometimes goes forward or he crowds me really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=63.7s	63.7	 pushes into me whines can even bark and sometimes just goes loses it and just starts circling me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=70.7s	70.7	 with a goofy grin and wish it's just a matter of imprecision and also jumping so she starts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=78.1s	78.1	 to bounce higher and higher so instead of going straight into heel work and then rehearsing errors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=84.8s	84.8	 because I'm using positive reinforcement I also don't want to rehearse errors so instead of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=91.9s	91.9	 shutting them down using compulsion I'm going to set the dog up for success and work on little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=97.4s	97.4	 games that are going to help the dog to focus and practice impulse control and also understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=103.0s	103.0	 the exercise so there's many different games and they there's you can find a you know a multitude
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=109.4s	109.4	 of games from other trainers these are just games that work specifically for my dogs I don't actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=116.4s	116.4	 know where I'm going to show you the first game I don't remember where I saw it but it was someone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=122.8s	122.8	 in one of the nordic countries if someone can remember please write in the comments who you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=128.7s	128.7	 think this technique comes from but basically your and it could just have come from multiple people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=134.8s	134.8	 but basically you're setting your dog up so that they can't be wrong and they're just practicing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=139.9s	139.9	 finding that correct position at your side so if you're really really if your dog is really a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=146.4s	146.4	 green dog in heel work you could do that by just having a platform and having the dog find the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=151.6s	151.6	 platform or just find the head position while on the platform or something really basic but for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=158.2s	158.2	 dog that's more advanced you can practice a game where the dog is coming from different angles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=163.6s	163.6	 and they're finding that position so you're taking the dog out of the position and they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=168.2s	168.2	 refinding it so that when you start the heel work mr halo boy likes to go ahead of me so I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=175.2s	175.2	 to start him ahead of me and then I'm going to ask him to find the position next to me so you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=180.6s	180.6	 might want to try this all these techniques inside with treats and then move out here but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 your dog might still be excited so I haven't done any of that I have very excited dogs and I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=192.0s	192.0	 to work on that exercise so there's that exercise the other exercise is teaching a leave it from a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 toy and then releasing the dog to the toy so they're practicing impulse control from something static
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=204.0s	204.0	 on the ground that they then can get that can help and also another I'm going to go over the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 three first another game to play is practicing stillness without over excitement so sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=217.4s	217.4	 when a dog is still they're also moving and yapping and snipping and and hyperventilating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=223.8s	223.8	 and biting at your leg or showing all their teeth and being overexcited so you're getting that calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=230.2s	230.2	 focus and when I say calm I mean that they're they're not like sleepy but they're there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 calm control they're very focused their muscles are ready to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=242.4s	242.4	 but but it's it's like there's going to be a burst of energy so it's not about like slowing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=248.0s	248.0	 your dog down but getting them focused and ready like an athlete ready to run okay so stay there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=254.8s	254.8	 I'm going to work with halo boy and he's going to bring me that thank you so the first game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=262.3s	262.3	 that which one were we going to play actually he will do better with leave it exercise so I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=268.9s	268.9	 to get him in the heel position and just be stationary first so I can stay tight and give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=274.2s	274.2	 him a hand cue and then have practice having him leave the frisbee still like this and I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=280.0s	280.0	 to have to move back so that which doesn't get hurt and then I can tell him get it good drop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=285.5s	285.5	 or if your dog can't jump and catch a frisbee like that touch you can say yes and then get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=293.1s	293.1	 and then throw it back or however you want to throw it if your dog is lagging you might throw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 it forward if your dog is forging you might throw it behind you or do whatever technique drop that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=303.4s	303.4	 you want to do which I wish they halo tight now I'm going to add the movement of the frisbee as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=310.6s	310.6	 distraction push and you can see he's really calm and focused and still so I could add duration to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=320.5s	320.5	 this before I then did duration for a toy good get it whoo okay so there's the drop the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=332.1s	332.1	 in my hand and now I'm going to do the distraction on the ground so I could put it behind me or I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=337.9s	337.9	 could put it ahead of me behind is easier ahead he might want to walk towards it so I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=345.2s	345.2	 put it leave it I'm going to throw it back there and then I'm going to wait for him to offer the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=350.5s	350.5	 position and if he doesn't I can just cue him with my hand rather than the verbal cue if I think he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=356.6s	356.6	 not going to do it so I could even lure him with a treat if if say your dog wasn't thinking to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=363.1s	363.1	 offer that position get it good boy bravissima bravissima whoo-hoo drop good okay stay there I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=374.7s	374.7	 wish so I could also practice on the right side leave it push and his head is not as high up as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=383.4s	383.4	 I wanted it so I'm gonna wait there that's nice I like that get it good boy whoo-hoo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=390.9s	390.9	 good job drop get it drop twirl get it drop spin get it and then I can play an exciting game with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=398.5s	398.5	 him in between drop ready go legs get it boom drop legs get it drop go around get it boom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=407.0s	407.0	 drop twirl get it that's very good drop okay so now the game of getting the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=413.7s	413.7	 to offer going into the position because I know what problem I will have if I just went and started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=419.7s	419.7	 trying to do heel work with him is he's going to go ahead of me and crowd my legs and even run in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=425.0s	425.0	 circles around me starting in this direction come forwards and then run around me okay so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=430.5s	430.5	 I'm gonna put this frisbee over here leave it and I'm going to start him out ahead of me like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=438.3s	438.3	 and then I'm going to tell him to back up bliss halo back up back up and then I'm going to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=445.0s	445.0	 him the cue to touch touch my leg in the position I want him and then I'm going to tell him to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=451.1s	451.1	 get it stay there wishy now if you don't have a dog that does I like to do trick training drop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=458.7s	458.7	 and heel work to music type heel work where the dog touches your leg if you don't have a cue where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=467.2s	467.2	 your dog touches your leg you might go back to how you originally trained the position maybe you use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=472.9s	472.9	 targeting out here so you would just have your hand target or you would just mark the dog for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=477.8s	477.8	 getting into the correct position so he's here I tell him wait leave it wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=483.6s	483.6	 hello tight good get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=493.8s	493.8	 awesome and I clap a lot because border collies can be sensitive with sound and he is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=499.8s	499.8	 and so drop drop it one of the things I like to do is condition clapping as a secondary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=506.7s	506.7	 reinforcer so that if there is clapping it just makes them more focused and not frightened go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=511.6s	511.6	 around whoo bring good boy drop let's do that again so I'll show you from this angle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=521.0s	521.0	 hello tight I'm going to throw that away and he's out ahead of me and I'm going to say tight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=529.0s	529.0	 get it good boy and then what you can do is add a couple of steps wishy tight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=536.3s	536.3	 yes haha drop okay now it's wish's turn to play ready wishy ready oh there goes halo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=549.7s	549.7	 that made him excited halo down it's not your turn wish tight wishy's very excited very excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=558.9s	558.9	 she's doing a behavior that we also trained when I'm standing in this position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=563.3s	563.3	 there's a hawk in the tree ready I don't know if you can hear it with my microphone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=568.3s	568.3	 so wish is very excited isn't she so I'm going to drop this stay there this is for wish leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=575.1s	575.1	 wishy tight push get it and I'm using my hand to help her get the behavior correct because what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=584.8s	584.8	 she was doing was this trick where she shakes her head as she walks and I don't want her to do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=591.2s	591.2	 when we're doing heel work she likes this game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=598.2s	598.2	 okay drop leave it tight push
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyAMPJ4tdNU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=53&pp=iAQB&t=607.3s	607.3	 get it bravissimo okay drop leave it heel flip to butt get it good
