https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, I'm very proud and honored to have special guest animal trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=6.8s	6.8	 Esther Minick Rosenthal here on channel Kikopup to tell us about how to get started training rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=13.4s	13.4	 Now this video is not only beneficial for those of you who are interested in training your pet rat, but for any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 beginner trainers and professional trainers interested in training any sort of species of animal, this video is very valuable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=29.5s	29.5	 Her skills are impeccable. That is why I have her on this channel because she's not only an extremely skilled
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=37.0s	37.0	 trainer, but she's great at explaining what she's doing in a way that everybody can understand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=43.4s	43.4	 After you've watched the video, don't forget to check out the description for links to free tutorials on training your rat using positive reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=51.4s	51.4	 Also, Esther has a Patreon account and you can buy some of her rats paintings on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=57.8s	57.8	 Etsy, so you have to check that out. Hi everyone, my name is Esther and today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=62.3s	62.3	 I'm going to be teaching you about training with pet rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=65.6s	65.6	 Domestic rats are very social and curious animals and they need lots of mental and physical enrichment in order to live their best lives.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=72.0s	72.0	 There are many ways you can meet these needs, but one of the most interactive and fun ways is trick training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=77.2s	77.2	 Now there are a few things you want to consider before jumping into training and the first one is where you will train.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=82.4s	82.4	 Rats are prey animals, so it's important that they feel super comfortable in any area you plan to train it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 I personally use my free range area for training time, which for my rats is a playpen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=92.1s	92.1	 However, you can use any area that your rats have explored thoroughly and feel confident in. If you would like to train in a brand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=97.6s	97.6	 new area, you will need to give your rats some time to adjust to the new area and I suggest doing a few days of just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=102.9s	102.9	 letting them explore this new place before you start trying to train. On top of figuring out a good place to train,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=107.9s	107.9	 you will also want to decide what treats you will be using.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=110.9s	110.9	 Training treats should follow a few loose guidelines,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=113.2s	113.2	 with the main three being that the treat should be small enough to eat in a few seconds,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=116.8s	116.8	 that the treat should be healthy enough to give in largest quantities, and finally that the treat shouldn't be too filling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=122.0s	122.0	 I would recommend avoiding pet store treats as most are extremely sugary and filling and should not be given in the quantities needed for training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=128.9s	128.9	 Personally, I tend to use plain cereals like Cheerios, puff rice snacks like Gerber Puffs, and finally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=134.2s	134.2	 I also like to use baby food and yogurt. You'll notice that half these treats are liquidy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=138.3s	138.3	 which is important because rats tend to find liquid treats more motivating than solid ones.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=142.4s	142.4	 I like to give my rats liquid treats when first starting out training, because rats can't run off with liquid treats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=147.3s	147.3	 which helps to start build focus during training time. Moving on from treats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=150.8s	150.8	 the next thing I want to cover is how old your rats need to be to train, and the answer to this is that rats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=155.7s	155.7	 can really learn at any age. By the time baby rats are ready to go to their new homes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=159.6s	159.6	 they will be more than old enough to start training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=162.6s	162.6	 Similarly, even if you get older rats, they will pick up training pretty quickly, although they may be less into the more active tricks such as agility,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 especially if they are on the pudgier side. So long as your rats are physically and mentally able to do a trick,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=174.1s	174.1	 then they can learn it at any age. Next up, I want to talk about training methods.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=178.3s	178.3	 These are really the meat and potatoes of training, since they are the way you'll convey to your rats what you are looking for.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=183.5s	183.5	 Now, there are several main training methods,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=185.5s	185.5	 but I will be talking about what I consider to be the main three, with those being luring, targeting, and shaping.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=191.0s	191.0	 I'm going to start off talking about luring, as I find it to be one of the easier training methods.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=195.4s	195.4	 So what is luring? Well, luring is when you guide your animal into doing a certain action by using an item
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=200.9s	200.9	 they want, such as a toy or a treat. In the case of rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=204.3s	204.3	 you will pretty much always be using a treat as a lure, and before you jump into using luring to train any tricks,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=209.5s	209.5	 it's a good idea to train the lure itself. Now, many people do skip the step, because it feels like rats should naturally know to follow any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=216.3s	216.3	 food around if they want it. Now, while this works for some rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=219.3s	219.3	 others will get super frustrated when you move the treat away from them and perceive it as you're teasing them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=224.1s	224.1	 So to avoid this frustration,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=225.7s	225.7	 I recommend that everyone train the lure as its own behavior first. To start training the lure,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=230.7s	230.7	 offer your rat a liquid treat off your fingers. You can also use solid treats broken into super small bits,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=235.8s	235.8	 however, I find liquid treats work better with my rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=238.5s	238.5	 Once your rat starts to lick the treat, start to slowly move your hand forwards,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=242.2s	242.2	 making sure the rat is keeping up and still licking up the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=245.2s	245.2	 Repeat this three to five times, then start to hold the treat out of reach for a step or two, before stopping and rewarding.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=251.2s	251.2	 Again, repeat this a few times, then add another step or two before you reward.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=255.9s	255.9	 Continue to gradually increase the amount of steps your rat is following the treat lure before being rewarded,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=260.2s	260.2	 until they can follow the lure ten steps consistently. At this point,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=263.8s	263.8	 you want to prove the lure by using it to lure your rat over things, under things, and in multiple directions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=268.9s	268.9	 Once your rat can consistently follow the lure ten plus steps in any direction,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=272.5s	272.5	 then you can move on to using the lure to train tricks. Moving on from luring, the second training method
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=278.1s	278.1	 I want to discuss is targeting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=279.7s	279.7	 Targeting is very similar to luring, only instead of your rat or other animal directly following something they want,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=284.8s	284.8	 you instead teach them to go to or follow another object such as a stick or your hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=289.4s	289.4	 There are a few big benefits of using targeting over luring, and one of them is that it allows your rats to work away from you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=295.1s	295.1	 The other main one is that it removes food or the desired object from the rats direct sight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=299.6s	299.6	 making it easier for them to focus on the action they're doing itself.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=302.7s	302.7	 Now, there are several different methods of targeting, with each one having its own purpose when training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=307.5s	307.5	 For rats, I typically use nose targeting, paw targeting, and stationary targeting the most,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=312.6s	312.6	 so those are what I'll be showing you how to train here. For your target item,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=316.4s	316.4	 you can use anything from an unsharpened pencil to your hand, to a piece of paper, or really any rat safe item.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=322.5s	322.5	 Okay, so to start off, I want to talk about how you can train your rat to target with their nose.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=326.5s	326.5	 To start training a rat to target with their nose, start by rubbing a treat on your target, then reward your rat when they sniff it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=332.4s	332.4	 curiously. Repeat this three to five times, then try to move the target a few steps away,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=336.7s	336.7	 and see if your rat will follow it. If they go to the target and nose it, then reward them. If they don't,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=342.3s	342.3	 repeat the prior step a few more times before trying again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=345.4s	345.4	 Slowly build how many steps your rat has to follow the target before they can nose touch it, and once they can follow it at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=350.5s	350.5	 least ten steps in any direction, you can then start to use nose targeting to train other tricks. Now moving on to the next targeting method,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=357.0s	357.0	 this time we're going to talk about how you can train a rat to paw a target.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=360.3s	360.3	 To start teaching a rat to paw a target, you first want to start by lowering your rat into standing on their hind paws.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=365.7s	365.7	 Lower them up and reward them three to five times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=368.5s	368.5	 After this, lower your rat up with one hand and use your other hand to stick your target item directly under one of your rat's paws.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=374.7s	374.7	 Slowly raise the item until it touches their paw, then immediately reward your rat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=378.9s	378.9	 Repeat this three to five times, then offer the target out to your rat. If they place their paw on it, reward them, and if not,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=385.5s	385.5	 repeat the prior step a few more times before trying again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=388.3s	388.3	 Once your rat can place one of their paws on the target,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=390.7s	390.7	 you can now expand upon this behavior by teaching them to do the same with their other paw, or you can start to build distance in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=396.3s	396.3	 same way you did with nose targeting. You can also use the paw targeting method to teach things such as paw or wave. Now moving on to stationary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=403.1s	403.1	 targeting, this version of targeting teaches your rat to go to a certain spot away from you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=407.3s	407.3	 This behavior is super helpful if you want to train tricks at a distance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=410.7s	410.7	 because it teaches your rat that moving away from you is rewarding. To train stationary targeting, get your target and place it next to your rat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=417.5s	417.5	 If they go to investigate it, reward them, and if not, you can place a treat on the target a few times to teach them to go to it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=424.3s	424.3	 Reward your rat three to five times for going to the target, then start to move it around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=428.7s	428.7	 Initially, you will want to keep the target close to your rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=431.0s	431.0	 but as they get the idea, you can start to move the target further away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=434.5s	434.5	 Once your rat can walk several steps away from you to go to the target, you can then start to use it for training other tricks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=440.1s	440.1	 So that's it for targeting, but the final method of training I want to talk about today is shaping.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=444.8s	444.8	 Shaping is the process in which you break a trick down into small manageable chunks, then gradually work up to the end behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=450.7s	450.7	 This method is essential for any trick, as there is no way to convey a complex behavior to a rat all at once,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=456.0s	456.0	 so you will need to break it down in order for your rat to learn it. Now regardless of the training method you use,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=461.3s	461.3	 shaping will always be part of your training. No matter what you are training or how you are training it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=465.9s	465.9	 you will always have to build to new behaviors over time. Now that being said, in this section
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=470.7s	470.7	 I want to focus on a subset of shaping that stands on its own, and that subset is called free shaping.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=475.4s	475.4	 Now free shaping is when you train an animal a trick by rewarding them for small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=479.2s	479.2	 approximations of the behavior you want to see as the end goal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=481.7s	481.7	 But instead of leading your rat into these approximations, you instead wait for them to try new behaviors on their own,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=486.9s	486.9	 then reward those behaviors selectively to build up to your final trick.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=490.5s	490.5	 I think free shaping is easiest to understand through an example, and the one we will be using in this video is free shaping a rat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=496.5s	496.5	 to go through a hoop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=497.6s	497.6	 Now there are many ways to train a rat to go through a hoop, and you can use the prior talked about methods such as luring or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=502.9s	502.9	 targeting them through it to train it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=504.4s	504.4	 But the way you train it using free shaping alone is to place the hoop in front of your rat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=508.3s	508.3	 then when they show interest in it, reward them. Build up their interests by consistently rewarding them for showing interest in the hoop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=514.5s	514.5	 then after a few repetitions start to be more selective about what you reward.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=518.3s	518.3	 So for example, if you were rewarding the rat for walking to the hoop before, now you might only reward the rat if they walk up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=523.9s	523.9	 to the hoop's entrance, then you might work to rewarding the rat when they stick their head in the entrance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=528.1s	528.1	 then you might only reward them when they stick half their body through the entrance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 and finally you might only reward them when they go through the hoop entirely.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=534.6s	534.6	 As your rat starts to get the idea, you'll want to continue to refine what behaviors you'll reward,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=539.4s	539.4	 so that you slowly shape your rat's behavior towards the end goal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=542.2s	542.2	 This process can be slow at first, however the big benefit of free shaping is that it teaches your rat's confidence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=547.4s	547.4	 and teaches them to think and figure things out on their own,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=550.0s	550.0	 which in turn creates rats that are quicker to pick things up and quicker to figure out future tricks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=554.5s	554.5	 Free shaping does tend to be one of the more difficult methods in my opinion to train at first,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=558.9s	558.9	 however if you practice it enough it does get easier,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=561.5s	561.5	 and it's essential for training tricks like basketball or fetch where you just have no way to lure the rat into the behavior that you want them to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=568.1s	568.1	 Now one thing I didn't mention so far with free shaping is that there's a super helpful tool that you can use,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=573.4s	573.4	 and that is known as a clicker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=575.3s	575.3	 Now clicker training, also known as marker training, is when you train an animal to associate a certain sound with a reward,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=581.2s	581.2	 and it helps speed up training by making your communication with your animals more efficient and clear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=585.7s	585.7	 Your rat will learn that when they hear a click they have done something good and that they will now be rewarded,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=590.9s	590.9	 and because they know that whatever got clicked is something you liked,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=593.7s	593.7	 they will now know to repeat that specific behavior instead of any other behavior they were doing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=598.3s	598.3	 As far as what to use as a clicker, you can use anything that makes a consistent noise every time you press it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=603.7s	603.7	 Technically you can also use your voice, however we tend to be slower to speak than we are at pressing a button,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=608.8s	608.8	 plus it's common for us to modulate our tone, so a clicker is often more helpful when starting out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=613.7s	613.7	 I do teach my rats a vocal yes to mark behaviors when both my hands are full,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=617.6s	617.6	 but typically I stick to a mechanical clicker because I find it's the most clear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=621.3s	621.3	 As a little bit of an aside, you don't have to use a commercial clicker for your rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=624.8s	624.8	 you can use anything that makes a consistent noise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=627.3s	627.3	 Personally, my clicker is a popped baby food lid because I tend to use a lot of baby food for my rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=632.1s	632.1	 so I pretty much always have a surplus of these lids lying around, and they work perfectly as a clicker for my rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=637.5s	637.5	 Regardless of what marker you use, make sure you stay consistent with it in order for it to be the most effective.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=642.9s	642.9	 Now you have a clicker that you can use to mark behavior,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=646.1s	646.1	 and it works pretty well for your rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=661.7s	661.7	 Regardless of what marker you use, make sure you stay consistent with it in order for it to be the most effective.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=667.2s	667.2	 Now I'd like to move on to talking about trick cues and which ones work best for rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=671.7s	671.7	 Cues are the signals you use to ask your animals to do a certain behavior, and they can take many forms.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=676.8s	676.8	 A cue can be a word, body language such as the hand motion, touch,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=680.8s	680.8	 it can be prop based, smell based, and so forth. For my rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=684.4s	684.4	 I typically use body language based cues, which due to rats small size tend to be hand cues.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=689.4s	689.4	 Rats tend to have some difficulty learning verbal cues, so the only verbal cue I train my rats is to come when called.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=695.4s	695.4	 Otherwise, we stick to either hand cues or prop cues, with the prop cue being cued by a hand motion to direct the attention of the rat to the prop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=702.9s	702.9	 which they then know how to manipulate in a certain way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=705.4s	705.4	 I would recommend sticking to mainly hand cues and prop cues for any tricks that you train with your rats,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=710.0s	710.0	 and if you do plan to introduce a verbal cue, it's a good idea to teach a hand cue first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=714.0s	714.0	 Now before we wrap up this video, I'd like to talk some about one final thing, and that thing is generalization.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=720.1s	720.1	 Generalization is when you teach your animal to take a specific task and apply it to multiple situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=725.3s	725.3	 This can include applying a behavior to various props, various locations, being able to perform it with various distractions, and so forth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=732.6s	732.6	 Humans tend to be pretty good at generalization,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=734.6s	734.6	 however, the same doesn't apply to most animals, and rats are no exception. Rats tend to be quite good at specifics,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=740.0s	740.0	 but will be slow to generalize when starting out. The more experience your rat gets with generalization,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=744.9s	744.9	 the quicker they'll be to generalize, however, you will need to work up to this over time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=749.2s	749.2	 So for example, if you wanted your rat to perform a trick at a friend's house,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=752.2s	752.2	 you can't just train it in one place and then expect them to transfer the behavior right away.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=756.5s	756.5	 Instead, you would first need to train the trick in an environment your rat feels confident in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=760.6s	760.6	 then you need to work it in a slightly new environment, then you need to work it in an environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=764.4s	764.4	 that's a little bit more challenging with more distractions, like let's say another room in your house,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=768.8s	768.8	 then you'd continue to slowly increase the environmental distractions bit by bit before working up to your rat performing at your friend's house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=775.4s	775.4	 All that is to say, just because a rat has a trick down in one specific context does not mean they'll be able to perform it in any situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=781.6s	781.6	 So if you do want your rat to perform the trick in different situations,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=784.5s	784.5	 you will need to work on this separately after they have learned the trick.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=787.7s	787.7	 Okay, so that's about it for this training video. Training rats is super fun,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=791.2s	791.2	 and it's such a great way to meet their needs for both mental and physical activities,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=794.7s	794.7	 and if anyone watching this has rats or other small pets, I highly encourage you to try training with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=799.8s	799.8	 I hope you found this video helpful, and a big thanks to Kikopup for letting me talk about rats on their amazing channel. Bye!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=806.3s	806.3	 I hope you enjoyed that video as much as I did. If you'd like to find out more about rat training using positive reinforcement,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=813.2s	813.2	 check out the description below for Esther Minick Rosenthal's social media accounts, including her YouTube channel,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=819.9s	819.9	 which has a multitude of amazing information on how to get started and train your rat like a professional.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qmIknzlqC0&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=54&pp=iAQB&t=827.8s	827.8	 See you later!
