https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Paw targeting. All you need for this exercise is a clicker, some treats, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=6.2s	6.2	 something to target like a yogurt lid, a ball on a stick, or a plastic push-on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=10.2s	10.2	 light. Take a treat and hide it under the light so the dog can see that it is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=14.7s	14.7	 covered by the object. Then click when your dog does any paw movements towards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=20.1s	20.1	 the light. Once you've done that about 10 successful times, pretend to put a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=26.6s	26.6	 under the light and click your dog for tapping the light and show them there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=30.5s	30.5	 no treat under the light but they still get one. Here you can see my puppy got a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=34.8s	34.8	 little bit confused so I pretended to put the treat under the light and clicked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=38.2s	38.2	 and treated. The next time I'm gonna wait the puppy out and see if he offers the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=43.3s	43.3	 paw tap, which he does. He's also offering other behavior like touching the object
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=48.1s	48.1	 with his nose and mouthing it, which I'm just gonna ignore. You don't want to tell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=51.9s	51.9	 your puppy eh-eh if they do something wrong because you're teaching them not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 to try new things and in the end it will be very hard to get new behaviors. Here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=60.8s	60.8	 you can see I'm putting the treats back underneath the light because I've raised
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=64.1s	64.1	 the criteria. I'm now holding the light above the ground and it's a different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=68.6s	68.6	 paw movement than the puppy was doing before, which was hitting the ground with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=72.4s	72.4	 his paw. Now he's reaching his paw up to hit the light. Some dogs will be more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=76.9s	76.9	 likely to offer the pawing behavior if you move the object around. If you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=81.2s	81.2	 having trouble getting your dog to paw the object, there are many things you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=84.4s	84.4	 try. Be creative. One thing you can try is using a see-through object so the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=88.9s	88.9	 can see the treat underneath. Another thing you can do is put it under a towel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=92.8s	92.8	 so that the dog can smell it and might scratch to get to it. Definitely try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=97.4s	97.4	 using better treats if your dog looks bored by the game. Here you can see I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=102.2s	102.2	 getting my puppy to offer both of his front paws by holding the object far to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=106.3s	106.3	 the right and far to the left. It is easier if the dog is sitting or laying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=109.8s	109.8	 down. I find that if you focus just on getting the dog to offer one paw that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=114.2s	114.2	 it's very hard down the line to get them to offer the second paw and they'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=117.8s	117.8	 always be very dominant with the paw that you trained first. Here's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=123.0s	123.0	 beginning of a game of getting the dog to target an object at a distance. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=126.7s	126.7	 pushing the light so that it's fun to chase and tap. This footage was taken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=132.0s	132.0	 from my puppy's first paw targeting lesson that lasted about five minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=135.8s	135.8	 total. Some dogs take longer to learn to use their paws and it may take a couple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=140.6s	140.6	 more sessions especially if they love using their noses instead. The next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=145.1s	145.1	 lesson I'll be doing with my puppy is teaching him a verbal cue for each paw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=148.7s	148.7	 Remember it is very important to get the behavior consistently before you name it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXCELHDT2fs&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=538&pp=iAQB&t=153.8s	153.8	 Don't forget to subscribe to channel Kikopup for more free training videos.
