https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone! This video is on the topic of living and taking care of older dogs. Now this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=6.2s	6.2	 video was voted into creation by the Kikopup members so thank you so much Kikopup members for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=11.7s	11.7	 your support. To begin with, it can be very very challenging to take care of older dogs. It's almost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 like there's a return to puppyhood. They can start to lose their incontinence, start to lose their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=24.9s	24.9	 manners in the house, they can be forgetful, they can get dementia. For my own dogs, they started to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=33.4s	33.4	 sleep less so I was living sadly Kiko and Splash, two of the first dogs that began my YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=42.2s	42.2	 channel. I had dogs before but Kiko is actually the reason, Kiko my Chihuahua is actually the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 reason my channel is named Kikopup because I got Kiko as a pup and so I made the channel for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=54.6s	54.6	 and then it turned into a dog training channel. So anyway, Kiko sadly passed at 17 and Splash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=61.9s	61.9	 passed at 14 recently but living with them in their older age was very very challenging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=70.2s	70.2	 and exhausting. I changed my whole life around. Sometimes it's not possible to change one's life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=78.6s	78.6	 around and you can get caregivers or perhaps you have family members that help you out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=85.3s	85.3	 but in Splash's case it was a little extreme that she had bladder cancer so she was needing to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 up like every 30 minutes in the night so I didn't know how long that was going to last. I had thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=100.6s	100.6	 it was a bladder infection at first before it was diagnosed as bladder cancer so I thought it was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=106.1s	106.1	 going to end and that I wouldn't have to keep waking up every 30 minutes to let her out to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=111.8s	111.8	 to the bathroom and I was losing a lot of sleep and it was exhausting so when she got the cancer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=118.8s	118.8	 diagnosis I actually did train her to go to the toilet inside and I'd never trained her to do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=125.3s	125.3	 so it took a lot of work. So there's a lot of problem solving and new sorts of management.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=133.1s	133.1	 Some examples of this is teaching your dog to be in a pen during their life is a great idea so that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=141.9s	141.9	 if they do get old and have dementia or are incontinence you can create a puppy proof or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=149.4s	149.4	 old dog proof zone to put them in when you're when you're not around so that they're safe and so that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=154.8s	154.8	 they're not going to just destroy your house or make it an unsanitary environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=163.1s	163.1	 It's not funny but we didn't know this when I was growing up and I had a childhood dog, a beagle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=170.6s	170.6	 and when she got really old and senile she had had some I believe it must have been focal seizures
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=177.5s	177.5	 now but at the time I didn't know what had happened but she would walk in circles so like we would go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=183.4s	183.4	 to high school and when we'd come back she'd have pooped and then walked in a circle and the whole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=189.7s	189.7	 living room would be covered in in poop so so after that had happened like three times we realized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=197.4s	197.4	 it was going to keep happening so the solution was to create a nice area for the dog and actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=209.0s	209.0	 she stopped pooping because she wasn't walking around a lot so while we were at school she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=215.0s	215.0	 was resting so it was an x-pen with some plastic down and then a nice soft slip proof blanket on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=224.5s	224.5	 top so that if she did go to the bathroom you just have to wash the blanket and not the slip proof
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=231.6s	231.6	 thing underneath and then a dog bed and what I did was put a plastic back I took the cover of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=237.5s	237.5	 dog bed off and I put a plastic bag around the dog bed and then put the cover back on so if she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=243.8s	243.8	 did go in the bed I'd only have to wash the outer covering so there's those ideas another idea is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=251.0s	251.0	 that you put doggie diapers on your dog and then attach them with a harness but I personally found
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=258.2s	258.2	 it easier to clean up after an incontinent dog that had gone in a pen rather than it being like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=265.3s	265.3	 smushed on their body so that that was my own preference that I found it easier to clean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 a thin blanket than to do the diaper solution I just it wasn't something that I wanted to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=277.4s	277.4	 and then also having nice an enzymatic cleaner to clean the plastic underneath
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=283.1s	283.1	 and things like that also I found with my own old dog that having when they lay down and get up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=292.8s	292.8	 they're not as they're not as graceful and so for my own beagle I created I put some fabric on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=302.0s	302.0	 bottom of the x-pen but you could use an x-pen that has those wide long beams or or or just put some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=311.0s	311.0	 cardboard at the bottom so if they lay down and their foot goes through that they can get that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=317.8s	317.8	 they can either get their foot back easily or that they can't get their foot through where they then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=322.7s	322.7	 can't get up and they're trapped so there's lots to think about when managing and keeping old dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=329.7s	329.7	 safe my little chihuahua Kiko also she used to sleep in my bed with me and then when she started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=337.5s	337.5	 to get dementia she one night fell out of my bed and that was it's for a tiny dog it can be really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 dangerous so I just stopped allowing her being in my bed but another solution to that is just having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=352.1s	352.1	 a little soft pen soft crate and then zipping the dog in if you really wanted to have your dog in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=358.4s	358.4	 bed with you that's the solution but you might be wondering how I trained my dog to go to the toilet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=367.4s	367.4	 in the house and that was really hard because she was so house trained so I it was basically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=376.7s	376.7	 trial and error I I tried getting a baby like a kitty pool and putting sod in it that would work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=385.1s	385.1	 for some dogs and then put that in my bathroom I have a really big bathroom so the kitty pool
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=392.5s	392.5	 would not go in that and I think it's because she knew the kitty pool was like for swimming and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=400.6s	400.6	 drinking so it was just not a no-go then I tried pee pads with grass sprinkled on them with like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=410.1s	410.1	 sod on them nope so finally the there was this ice plant in my backyard where she constantly went
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=418.6s	418.6	 and I just gathered up some ice plant and made a big jungle of it on the pee pads and then I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=423.9s	423.9	 gradually reduced it after she learned to go on there so to teach her to go in the middle of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=431.6s	431.6	 night I would she'd wake me up telling me she needed to go out and I would take her to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=440.3s	440.3	 back door where she was to go used to go out to go to the bathroom and then I would walk her into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=446.2s	446.2	 the bathroom so she could practice that she would go look for me go to the back door and then go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=452.6s	452.6	 the bathroom and then I would tell her to go pee so I used a verbal cue to teach her to to go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=460.6s	460.6	 the bathroom this obviously doesn't work very well if you have a deaf deaf or senile dog but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=466.7s	466.7	 pointing you could use a visual cue like pointing at the location where the dog is to go to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=473.0s	473.0	 bathroom if your dog is is deaf or just being in the location is the cue to go or being led in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=481.8s	481.8	 certain way so I would lead her to the the bathroom and give her the verbal cue go pee which I trained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=489.0s	489.0	 by taking her outside and saying go pee just before she went to the bathroom so not as she was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=495.0s	495.0	 going to the bathroom but just before she was going to the bathroom and then she learned the cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=500.5s	500.5	 meant to go to the bathroom so I used that to teach her to go to the bathroom in the in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=508.5s	508.5	 in my bathroom and then over a couple of weeks she actually learned to not wake me up she would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=514.4s	514.4	 go to the door and then go to the bathroom and then eventually she would just go and use the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=518.7s	518.7	 bathroom herself because it was highly reinforcing to release her bladder so that's how the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=525.1s	525.1	 that's how it worked is that over time she just found it reinforcing to go there but she did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=532.1s	532.1	 prefer going outside so I do think it's a great idea with old dogs and puppies and any age of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=539.8s	539.8	 dog that you constantly give them opportunities to go outside so that it's the preference otherwise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=547.2s	547.2	 what can happen is that they can start going in your house and if you have an incontinent dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=554.2s	554.2	 they're not going to be able to hold it if it's a puppy some puppies cannot hold their bladder
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=559.3s	559.3	 and if it's an adult dog I mean an older dog or a dog with health issues sometimes they just can't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=565.9s	565.9	 hold it so you're going to have to be conscious of when they've drank water and when they need to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=573.7s	573.7	 to the bathroom so giving meals where your dog is where you know when your dog ate a certain amount
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=582.7s	582.7	 of food and when they usually go to the bathroom you can start to exercise them at times when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=588.3s	588.3	 know they might poop so you can make sure they've pooped and then if they drink a lot of water say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=593.9s	593.9	 they did some exercise or they got hot they were laying in the sun came in and gulped up a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=599.4s	599.4	 water then in 30 minutes they're probably going to need to pee so get the take them out so just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=606.9s	606.9	 being mindful of of when they're eating and drinking and being mindful of those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=611.5s	611.5	 precursors to when they need to go to the when they are looking to go to the bathroom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=616.4s	616.4	 can be so helpful so I have mainly been talking about going to the toilet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=623.0s	623.0	 sorry but that I think is the most important thing and the most exhausting thing is being woken up in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=627.9s	627.9	 the night and and and cleaning up accidents with with older dogs the other things to keep in mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=635.2s	635.2	 when you have an older dog is their their their health and quality of life so I'm not a nutritionist
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 but researching a good diet for your specific dog is a great idea for for your older dog's needs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=652.6s	652.6	 but also your dog's physical health and mental health so you can play training games with your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=660.0s	660.0	 and some training games are are extremely beneficial for for older dogs a lot of canine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=667.3s	667.3	 freestyle and obedience behaviors are so good for older dogs and so I suggest that you go to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=676.2s	676.2	 physical therapist or a canine fitness expert and learn what exercises are beneficial for your specific
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=685.6s	685.6	 so these people can help your dog build the muscles that are necessary to keep them fit and healthy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=692.2s	692.2	 and able to walk so um some kiko my little chihuahua uh she actually uh was born with no hocks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=702.7s	702.7	 ankle joints they were very rudimentary and her her her back legs could bend in and out it was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=708.6s	708.6	 quite horrific uh I don't think I I think I have like one video on the internet of where they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=713.8s	713.8	 bending the wrong way but usually because of all the training she's she's walking correctly so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=720.3s	720.3	 doing canine fitness exercises uh and and physical therapy and fun tricks that are beneficial for my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=728.3s	728.3	 specific dog's needs has kept them healthy and moving all their all their life and an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=734.4s	734.4	 extremely important thing is keeping their weight down so they're a healthy weight not skinny fat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=741.0s	741.0	 which is when the dog is super skinny with no muscle because for me that's really scary if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=746.5s	746.5	 they get sick there's nothing for them to survive on uh to get through that illness so um being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=753.0s	753.0	 healthy physically fit for for their age having um muscle and not being overweight but not being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=760.7s	760.7	 super skinny um is going to be highly beneficial uh for their body older dogs are not able to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=767.3s	767.3	 on walks as long as they used to um so I suggest doing shorter walks more frequently so that's also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=774.6s	774.6	 going to help them go out and go to the bathroom so um instead of one long walk you might do three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=780.4s	780.4	 short walks or maybe your dog isn't able to do a proper walk and you just go out and let them sniff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=786.2s	786.2	 around in new areas or you drive somewhere and just let them sniff around and then get back in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=791.6s	791.6	 the car just to create some variety and interest in their life if they're interested in going out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=797.5s	797.5	 and about and smelling things if they're fearful um and it's stressing them out to go different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=802.9s	802.9	 places just revisiting the same area that perhaps has different traffic of dogs coming through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=809.0s	809.0	 or interest you can also create interest by sprinkling treats in the grass novelty treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=814.7s	814.7	 different types of foods that are healthy for your dog in the grass for them to find um you can also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=821.5s	821.5	 do things like hide the food in different uh like if you're if you have to do the games inside you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=827.3s	827.3	 could hide the food in like a towel folded towel or a snuffle mat or under objects like um upside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=835.1s	835.1	 down yogurt containers that are clean so little treats are hidden under yogurt containers where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=840.6s	840.6	 they have to like knock over the containers to find the treats and um just lots of different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=846.6s	846.6	 enrichment ideas that you can think of to build interest in their everyday life because I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=852.4s	852.4	 that sometimes when you're an older dog or an older human being that it can get quite boring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=858.5s	858.5	 to be doing the same routine over and over again um so creating some interest in the life can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=865.1s	865.1	 can greatly increase uh their mental and physical health thank you so much for watching if you'd
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_eKGzuvy0E&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=60&pp=iAQB&t=871.8s	871.8	 like to support my work don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel see you later
