https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Okay, I want to teach you how to teach your dog how to lay down at your feet as a default
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=11.1s	11.1	 whenever you sit down and they're on leash or you're standing and gnawing them. So all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=16.1s	16.1	 you need is a dog, a leash, some treats that they find reinforcing. If they don't like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=21.1s	21.1	 them, if they're not working for the food then they're not reinforcing. So something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=27.0s	27.0	 they really like, it's really tasty. So find a chair, get a leash, sit down, ignore your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=34.4s	34.4	 dog. Have the leash short enough that they can't reach anything exciting and when they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=39.4s	39.4	 choose to lay down, which Splash has already done this exercise before so she might be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=44.6s	44.6	 a little faster than other dogs, when they choose to lay down on their own treats rain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 from the sky between their paws. You don't really want to give your dog any attention,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=55.5s	55.5	 those treats just appear between those paws. If they pop up after the treats have gone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=63.7s	63.7	 down then just ignore them, wait for them to lay back down again, you don't see the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=67.7s	67.7	 dog, what dog? And then when they're down again treats rain from the sky and if they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=73.4s	73.4	 stay down like that they get more treats. And then gradually the treat rate, however
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 many times you're dropping the treats gets longer and longer so they have to be laying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 there, calmly settled for longer and longer periods of time. The next thing you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 add is some handling and distraction. So once they've mastered settling at your feet in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=97.6s	97.6	 the living room then try other rooms of the house, try the garden, go in the street, go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=102.6s	102.6	 to the, you know, the final thing would be a cafe. So you can also add some handling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=110.4s	110.4	 so if they stay down while you're handling them, yep, they get a treat. They can be handling,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=116.4s	116.4	 they can be tail pulling, maybe a little kid, this is for the little kid that comes up at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=120.6s	120.6	 the restaurant and kind of comes and pokes his eye in the face and they get reinforced
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=124.9s	124.9	 for staying there. So I'm not telling her to stay there, she likes to stay there. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 reinforced and reinforced for it so it's a behavior that she chooses on her own. Will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=135.5s	135.5	 she stay there while I walk away? That's the behavior to be reinforced. She just happens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=142.5s	142.5	 to that. Come Kiko. Next distraction for a slash, Kiko's there, is having a dog with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=152.5s	152.5	 her treats in front of her. So because she already knows this behavior, I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=159.5s	159.5	 do some tricks with Kiko. If she chooses to get up, I'm not going to punish her, I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=163.9s	163.9	 going to ignore her and only reinforce her when she lays down again. Kiko, come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=170.9s	170.9	 Kiko wait, Kiko bite, Kiko bite your tail. So at first if you're going to work with another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=179.6s	179.6	 dog and have one of the dogs settle, I would give a treat for every time the other dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=185.3s	185.3	 gets a treat at first. So they learn I'm getting just as many treats just laying here as that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=191.0s	191.0	 dog is doing their behavior and how wonderful of an honor is that to do that for me. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=197.0s	197.0	 don't want them to learn, pop up and lay down to get treats. So be very careful if you notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 that you're feeding your dog every time they pop up and then lay down. So have a cue to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=207.7s	207.7	 me and get up so all done are okay. If you don't get up, pat your legs and charge them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=213.7s	213.7	 out and give them a treat for coming with you. Now practice at the park.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=221.0s	221.0	 Now practice at the park.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sLNzyAcEck&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=615&pp=iAQB&t=251.0s	251.0	 Now practice at the park.
