https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone! This is a game changer tip for all of you who are trying to train a medium to large size dog to walk on a loose leash at your side.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 Oftentimes we get hung up with reinforcing where the dog should be and not thinking about the dog's gait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=17.6s	17.6	 So if you have a puppy that's going to be a medium or large size dog and they're going to at least double in size,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=26.0s	26.0	 what's going to happen is their legs are going to be double as long unless you have a very short dog like I have a little Shih Tzu makes his legs like they grew.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=35.6s	35.6	 They were this short and then they grew this big.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=38.6s	38.6	 So the amount of ground he covered when walking at a specific gait, it didn't change much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=44.5s	44.5	 But if your dog's legs are going to be like a puppy and then an adult, they're going to travel twice as fast because they're going to cover more ground.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=54.5s	54.5	 So if you're reinforcing your dog for staying at your side, yes they're learning to stay at your side,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=60.2s	60.2	 but most puppies will comfortably trot at your side when we're walking a normal pace that a human might walk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=67.9s	67.9	 If you're walking extremely slow, your puppy is probably going to be also walking with you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=73.7s	73.7	 Now if you continually reinforce your puppy for trotting at your side and you notice that around the house the puppy trots to different locations,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=84.5s	84.5	 the puppy's never practicing or rehearsing walking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=88.2s	88.2	 Some breeds don't particularly like to walk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=91.3s	91.3	 For example sight hounds and whippets, they might be trotting to every destination that they're going to go to and not specifically walking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=99.7s	99.7	 So when their legs double in size and then suddenly you, for the dog, have started to walk twice as slow for them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=108.2s	108.2	 they're going to get very confused and frustrated that they're suddenly having to walk twice as slow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=114.6s	114.6	 So for us it seems like they are walking twice as fast and wanting to pull,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=119.8s	119.8	 but in truth we are the ones that are slowing them down because they don't know that they've doubled in size.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=126.2s	126.2	 So that's a really important tip.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=128.8s	128.8	 So if you have a young puppy, what you have to do is practice walking extremely slow and it can be extremely boring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=136.4s	136.4	 because puppies want to walk fast, we want to walk fast, and so us walking slow is actually great practice for us to understand what it's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=145.7s	145.7	 when the little puppy is an adolescent and they're having that joy of exploration of the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=151.5s	151.5	 that they have to walk half as slow as they want to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=154.7s	154.7	 So us practicing when you have a little puppy you're going to be reinforcing them for going at a slow walking pace as well as a trot.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=164.3s	164.3	 So another thing to keep in mind is you might want to film yourself walking with your puppy or adult dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=170.6s	170.6	 and see that you're reinforcing the puppy for staying at the same gate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=175.0s	175.0	 So they're going to be walking and not walking and trotting, walking and trotting, walking and trotting,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=179.9s	179.9	 and when they're trotting they're trotting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=181.4s	181.4	 So you can practice walking when your dog's walking super slow and then walking faster where your dog's trotting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=187.8s	187.8	 And if you have an adult dog you can practice this too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=191.0s	191.0	 So what I suggest if your dog is walking at your side and you're in a busy environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=197.0s	197.0	 that you're going to have your dog just walking at your side if you have a large dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=202.8s	202.8	 because if they were to trot they're going to hit the end of the leash in like a second.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=207.3s	207.3	 So this is really going to help with those dogs that they understand the concept of walking at your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=214.2s	214.2	 but they see something they want to sniff and what they're going to do is go as fast as they can to that area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=219.3s	219.3	 But if you've taught them to just walk everywhere and you can even proof it in training games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=224.8s	224.8	 where you set up something that you're going to reach maybe it's the other end of the road
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=229.4s	229.4	 or a bush or a bowl of treats and you practice walking there with your dog at your side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=235.7s	235.7	 and they walk at a walk and don't trot and then you release them to whatever it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=241.2s	241.2	 You can practice this technique and then when your dog wants to get somewhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=246.1s	246.1	 they're going to walk to that distraction rather than suddenly run which is which can end with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=252.5s	252.5	 hitting the end of the leash because they're not thinking about how close they are to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=256.9s	256.9	 So that's a really wonderful tip and it makes it so easy especially for service dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=262.6s	262.6	 So my boy Bliss ever since he was a little puppy I rarely walked at a trot with him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=269.3s	269.3	 I did lots of training and off leash where he's trotting around but when I walked him on a leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=275.4s	275.4	 I walked half as slow as I wanted to and by the time he was six months old he was walking perfectly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=281.8s	281.8	 at my side just walking and not ever thinking to go into a trot because if he did go into a trot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=287.9s	287.9	 I would be jogging. So we do practice that and it has a different name specifically for jogging.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=295.3s	295.3	 So that's the tip if you have a small breed dog like a Chihuahua or a dog like that it really is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=303.1s	303.1	 super easy to teach them to walk on a loose leash in comparison because they're not going to change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=308.1s	308.1	 sizes. A good thing to keep in mind is that they are going at a beautiful nice trot or walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=316.6s	316.6	 where you walk super slow so they can sniff around but make sure that you're going a nice speed for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=323.5s	323.5	 them so you can film your dog and see if they're going at a nice gait or and also with large breed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=329.7s	329.7	 dogs if you walk quite fast and you have a husky and they're trotting make sure that you're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=335.4s	335.4	 the correct speed because what can happen is sometimes the dog can start walking like a camel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=339.9s	339.9	 usually a dog will move their the left front foot and their back right foot forward as they trot and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=346.6s	346.6	 when they're walking like a camel they'll walk with the left foot and the left back foot so keep in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=351.4s	351.4	 mind that the dog isn't doing that and it's great to if the dog is doing that just get the dog checked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=356.8s	356.8	 out by a vet to make sure that it isn't there isn't something going on with their hips or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 something else going on in their body if you keep trying to change speeds and the dog is not having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=367.0s	367.0	 success with trotting normally. Most of you might already have an adult medium to large size dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=373.9s	373.9	 that's having a pulling issue and what I suggest is to practice slow walking in your house where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=380.1s	380.1	 you walk really slow mark and reinforce practice in your yard go out to the street and practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=385.7s	385.7	 walking slow reinforcing your dog at your side and then release them to sniff things that are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=390.6s	390.6	 within reach so you can say okay go sniff and then they can sniff bushes and and pee on them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=396.2s	396.2	 and then if the dog does go to pull keep the leash short enough that the dog's step into the trot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=404.0s	404.0	 ends with the leash pressure so that the leash is short enough that the dog can't just take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=409.3s	409.3	 off running and then hit the end of the leash that's not only going to be more comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=413.6s	413.6	 when the dog hits the end of the leash but it's going to teach the dog that as soon as they start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=418.4s	418.4	 getting fast they can't get where they want and you can work on leash pressure as a cue and I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=424.6s	424.6	 link a video in the description below on how to teach your dog that when they feel the leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=428.8s	428.8	 pressure it's simply a cue to turn back to you and find the area where the leash is loose that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=433.9s	433.9	 going to be extremely helpful along with this tip of teaching the dog what speed to go when walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=440.6s	440.6	 with you that when they do hit the end of the leash they know oh I'm supposed to back up or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=447.2s	447.2	 reorient to the handler so the what usually happens is people will have a five foot long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=454.2s	454.2	 leash the dog's walking at the side and then you see them go start to speed up slowly and get out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=460.1s	460.1	 in front of their owner hit the end of the leash come back speed up slowly and what the owner's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=465.6s	465.6	 looking at is the loose leash and so they're not thinking about the fact that the dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=470.3s	470.3	 speeding up so instead of letting the dog rehearse speeding up for a few seconds and then hitting the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=475.8s	475.8	 end of the leash and then having to come back that moment that you see them speed up you don't even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=481.0s	481.0	 have to shorten the leash you can get make a kissy noise or simply stop so the dog has to stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=488.3s	488.3	 at your side but by keeping the leash short when practicing this if the dog ignores you and they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=494.4s	494.4	 keep going they're not going to hit the end of the leash out in front of you they're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=498.9s	498.9	 hit it right at your side and some dogs once they've had this training you don't even have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=504.9s	504.9	 they just feel a slight pressure that they're that they're that they're at the end of the leash and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=511.1s	511.1	 they come back and of course you can do what I previously mentioned as well which is set up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=515.9s	515.9	 training games where you put out a distraction and you practice walking towards it with your dog at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=521.6s	521.6	 a walk instead of a trot if you have a large breed dog I hope this tip was helpful for your training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=527.5s	527.5	 don't forget to leave me a comment because it's highly reinforcing for me and it will mean more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=532.9s	532.9	 people will find this tip and you can also subscribe to this channel for more free dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=538.2s	538.2	 training videos that show you how you can train your dog without the use of physical or psychological
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfQhpr47HLI&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=64&pp=iAQB&t=543.8s	543.8	 intimidation see you later
