https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hi everyone in this video I'm going to be answering the question
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=3.4s	3.4	 How do you get your dog to do heel work even when they're high level distractions?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=8.4s	8.4	 Say for example, you're in a city and there's lots of stuff going on in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=13.5s	13.5	 skateboards going by people passing or you're at a park and dogs are loose and playing or barking and kids are throwing balls and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=21.3s	21.3	 Your dog wants to join in or you're at the beach and your dog really would like to jump in the ocean or chase the seagulls
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=28.1s	28.1	 How do you get your dog to want to do heel work with all this stuff going on in the environment?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=33.0s	33.0	 So I was asked this yesterday as a comment and I thought it would be a great idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=38.2s	38.2	 To make a video of my answer and it's not so much about each behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=44.1s	44.1	 You have to then go and proof and generalize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=47.3s	47.3	 And and work on all these different distractions with each behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=51.0s	51.0	 It's more that you teach your dog the concept of wanting to train with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 Wanting to play with you in these distraction distracting environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=61.0s	61.0	 The first step to teaching your dog to do stuff for you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=65.5s	65.5	 Seeing if you can get your dog to want to play with you in the environments that are distracting for your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=71.1s	71.1	 So if you want it if you have a dog that wants to play with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=73.9s	73.9	 Then you have all the power in the world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=76.8s	76.8	 So I would first begin with the easiest behaviors in these distracting environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=82.0s	82.0	 But also even before getting to the easy behaviors, I do actually have a video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=87.9s	87.9	 And I'll link it in the description below of just going to these environments and just working on a settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=94.3s	94.3	 so you're teaching your dog to relax and settle and get treats and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=98.0s	98.0	 Just simply do nothing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=99.9s	99.9	 While these things are going on when you can get a dog that can relax in an environment where there's the sea the birds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=107.5s	107.5	 The enticing dogs and the children playing and your dog can just relax on a mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=112.4s	112.4	 Wow, it's gonna be so easy to get your dog to want to work with you in these distracting environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 So first beginning with just relaxing on a mat then doing little behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=122.6s	122.6	 Maybe you ask for a little bit of attention you play attention games go back to the mat and the video below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 You can you can check that out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 So you're basically teaching your dog that they can just relax and ignore these distractions out and about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=137.6s	137.6	 And check out the video that says calm settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=141.2s	141.2	 because that is how to teach your dog to relax on the mat and I'll link that below and so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=146.6s	146.6	 You're basically teaching your dog to be okay with all these things going on even if you're not training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=152.0s	152.0	 So there is the possibility if you have a dog that's really driven for food or toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=157.1s	157.1	 But as soon as you're working for food or toys the toy trumps or the food trumps everything else in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=163.7s	163.7	 And you have a hundred percent of your dog's attention. There are some dogs that are like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=168.1s	168.1	 But as soon as the toy goes away, then their interest is diverted or perhaps you have a dog that has an interest in novelty toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=176.0s	176.0	 So if they see another dog playing with a toy that might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=179.8s	179.8	 distract your dog away from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=181.8s	181.8	 From working with you. So it's really important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=185.8s	185.8	 If you want reliable behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=188.7s	188.7	 To work on the distractions so that they they aren't these extreme things for your dog to have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=196.3s	196.3	 Combat to have to ignore in order to work to work for you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=200.8s	200.8	 So it's more about say if you had a dog that was really worried about dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=205.9s	205.9	 If you're asking them to do heel work for something they want and they have this worry about something in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=213.8s	213.8	 There's this conflict
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=215.4s	215.4	 So I suggest working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=217.7s	217.7	 Counter conditioning and teaching your dog to trust you that these things in the environment aren't going to bother them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=224.2s	224.2	 While they're not working doing just a settle and getting to look around and then when your dog's comfortable then you can add
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=231.2s	231.2	 the behaviors of asking for heel work or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=234.4s	234.4	 Or tricks or any sorts of behaviors that you wish to do with your dog in public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=239.6s	239.6	 Here's a very simple plan for success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=241.9s	241.9	 Whatever behaviors you want to do in public you work on them in your house and build that reinforcement history
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=250.4s	250.4	 100% of the dog's interest is in earning the reinforcement that you have and nothing is distracting them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=256.6s	256.6	 so you're building and conditioning your dog to hear the cue and a hundred percent want to do the behavior and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=263.8s	263.8	 What's going to happen is the cue is going to start to become secondary reinforcement the dogs gonna go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=269.4s	269.4	 Yes, I love hearing that and the behavior is going to start to become a secondary reinforcer and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=274.7s	274.7	 The dog is going to want to do the behavior where if you try to train the behaviors in distracting environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=281.6s	281.6	 The conditioning is going to be watered down and muddy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=285.5s	285.5	 it's going to be hard to know if the dog is a hundred percent wanting to do that behavior or if they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=292.1s	292.1	 Conflicted or stressed so the reinforcement isn't as powerful as it would be if you're in a non distracting environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=299.5s	299.5	 So I really suggest building those behaviors in your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=303.1s	303.1	 That's why you always see me with my dogs in my living room or my training room working on those behaviors and building them to be strong
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=311.3s	311.3	 proofing with distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 Inside the house before then moving outside. So one big
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=318.1s	318.1	 secret to getting your dog to ignore distractions outside the house is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=322.7s	322.7	 Creating a distraction in your house. That's hard for them. So a bowl of food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=327.7s	327.7	 They ignore the bowl of food and then they're released to the bowl of food or they never get the bowl of food work with toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=333.9s	333.9	 distractions work with people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=337.0s	337.0	 Family members that they have to ignore that are maybe talking to them going hi
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=340.9s	340.9	 Bobby Bobby Bobby or whatever you want in the house. So you're building that concept of ignore the distraction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=348.4s	348.4	 earns the reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=349.8s	349.8	 Another wonderful thing is if you have a distraction you can bring say for example the bowl of food that was in your living room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=357.0s	357.0	 When you place it into the park and you start doing the same game that you did at home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=361.6s	361.6	 I promise you that a lot of dogs will forget about the other stuff in the environment and start really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=369.1s	369.1	 Concentrating on leaving the the thing that they've worked on at home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 So that can actually build your dog's attention on you by bringing the distraction from home to the park for them to focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=380.0s	380.0	 rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=381.0s	381.0	 the other distractions in the environment for duration behaviors or complex behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=386.2s	386.2	 I suggest adding a lot of criteria when you're in your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=390.3s	390.3	 And then when you go to the park you ask for just a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=393.8s	393.8	 Just the beginning of the behavior go back to basics when you're at the park and what it's going to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=399.6s	399.6	 Is that when they're out and about things get easier and more fun and then you build on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=404.8s	404.8	 So if you want to go back to building duration
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=407.4s	407.4	 You can do that in your living room and then go back to the park and add on it or go back to the city streets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=413.2s	413.2	 And add on it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=414.6s	414.6	 Here's footage of epic my Chihuahua when she was a puppy and you can see we're working on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=420.7s	420.7	 Exercises that we worked on in our home in our yard before then bringing them to the park and you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=427.4s	427.4	 Her motivation and interest in wanting to work because she already knows the behaviors from when she worked on them in a non-distracting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=436.0s	436.0	 environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=444.6s	444.6	 So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=464.0s	464.0	 Good puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=474.6s	474.6	 Good dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=491.6s	491.6	 If you have a dog that's not even taking treats or playing with toys outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=495.7s	495.7	 You can be working on all these behaviors and proofing inside your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=500.3s	500.3	 And at the same time going on outings with your dog to get them used to being out and about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=507.5s	507.5	 And just relaxing out and about and then doing very basic things like paying attention to you or playing attention games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=514.7s	514.7	 Out and about and just some loose leash walking out and about and sniffing around out and about and getting used to being out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=520.8s	520.8	 Without fixating on distraction distractions in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=525.3s	525.3	 So that is the plan you work on the behaviors at home build their strength build your dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=531.6s	531.6	 Build them to be secondary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=533.1s	533.1	 Reinforcers do some proofing and then work on the things that your dog is distracted by either
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=538.7s	538.7	 They're excited or they're worried about and you're teaching your dog to be confident and calm and be able to listen to you around these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=546.4s	546.4	 Distractions and then you combine the two so you can work on any behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=551.3s	551.3	 You wish to get your dog to want to do them out and about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=555.3s	555.3	 I hope this video was helpful for your training if you'd like to support my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=559.5s	559.5	 Don't forget to like this video leave me a comment as it's highly reinforcing and subscribe to this channel for more free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=567.5s	567.5	 Professional dog training videos that show you how you can train your dog without the use of physical or psychological intimidation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss5GOVnw8po&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=65&pp=iAQB&t=575.3s	575.3	 See you later
