https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this video is on the topic of teaching your dog to put on their harness when you hold it out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=6.0s	6.0	 So it's for harnesses where the dog puts their head through you could also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=10.2s	10.2	 Potentially teach your dog to put their feet up on a platform if you had a dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=15.9s	15.9	 Gets into their harness by putting their feet into it. So this video specifically is made to help people with service dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=24.3s	24.3	 Sometimes dogs will start to have an aversion to having their harness put on because sometimes it bumps into their ears
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=30.0s	30.0	 Or it just feels oppressive when the harness goes on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=32.8s	32.8	 So instead of putting the harness onto the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=35.8s	35.8	 You can teach the dog to put on their harness on a verbal cue or a visual cue if your dog has an extreme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=42.0s	42.0	 Aversion to putting on his harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=43.5s	43.5	 You can try using something else that looks nothing like a harness to teach the cue of putting their head through the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=50.5s	50.5	 And something very easy and with a larger hole so that their ears aren't getting squished or it's not rubbing against them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=57.8s	57.8	 Then this is a pool noodle you can gradually make it smaller and smaller
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=61.7s	61.7	 So I could cut the pool noodle into smaller pieces
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=64.5s	64.5	 So that it's a smaller hole that the dog has to put their head through and get used to bumping into the bottom part
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=70.2s	70.2	 with their chest on a verbal cue so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=73.6s	73.6	 You can use whatever cue you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=75.2s	75.2	 I'm gonna say put on your vest and that's gonna mean put your head through whatever I'm holding out like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 So it could be put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=83.9s	83.9	 Because I also have a harness but for Bliss who is my service dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=88.5s	88.5	 I'm gonna have put on your vest mean for the vest and then for the normal harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=93.5s	93.5	 I'm just gonna put it on him so that it's really a specific cue that the service dog work is going to begin and that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=100.1s	100.1	 It's not just a casual walk where he's just walking on a loose leash enjoying being a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=105.6s	105.6	 Okay, so what I'm gonna do is throw whoo. I dropped a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=109.4s	109.4	 I'm gonna throw a treat and say get it behind and then I'm just gonna feed him like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=114.5s	114.5	 So he's getting used to approaching the harness and getting a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=118.9s	118.9	 It's not a harness a pool noodle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=121.4s	121.4	 So I throw a treat and I'm just building a repetitive chain of behaviors where he's getting a reinforcement away and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=129.5s	129.5	 He's seeing the harness and he's getting a reinforcement for approaching it. So there's no markers that I'm using just yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=137.2s	137.2	 I'm just building a repetitive behavior of going away and coming back with confidence. So I'm not moving into his space
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=145.9s	145.9	 That's really important. If anything, I'm gonna move away from him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=149.7s	149.7	 so if the dog is reluctant to come towards you when you're holding a treat as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=155.0s	155.0	 You as he approaches you can move away and make noise. Did you see how he got faster?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=160.5s	160.5	 So when you're ever conditioning something you can begin with movement away before movement towards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=167.4s	167.4	 and that's one of the big reasons that dogs don't like having harnesses put on because immediately the trainer is putting the object into their space and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=176.8s	176.8	 Hovering over the dog's head. So even though he's pretty good. You can see he's kind of backing up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=181.0s	181.0	 I mean, he's he's a wonderful guy, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=184.3s	184.3	 You always want to begin with either being still or moving away good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=188.7s	188.7	 And and if you start to get to the next step where you're getting the dog's head through and they start to get a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=194.4s	194.4	 Bit worried go back to the first step and really build in multiple training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=199.6s	199.6	 You throw the treats away and you can even start adding the cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=205.8s	205.8	 Come or put it in or touch or whatever you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=209.0s	209.0	 So touching your fingers touch good and then throwing a treat away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=213.9s	213.9	 to really build that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=216.1s	216.1	 Initial joy of seeing this and wanting to approach it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=219.8s	219.8	 Okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=220.3s	220.3	 So if your dog is really confident and successful with that step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=223.8s	223.8	 You can move on to holding the treats where the dog puts their head through the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=228.6s	228.6	 So they're gonna put the head through the harness and eat the treat and the goal is for the dog to not dip their head back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=235.1s	235.1	 Out of the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 so I'm gonna load up my right hand with a couple of treats and then I'm gonna throw one away for him and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=242.7s	242.7	 This is great because when I throw it away I can see how fast he approaches if he stops wanting to approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=248.4s	248.4	 That can mean that the the reinforcement isn't of high enough value that he's getting conditioned to enjoy the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=255.5s	255.5	 So if you throw one away and they go sniffing and want to wander off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=258.8s	258.8	 You need to try again at a different time or try better treats or just break break the steps up smaller
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=264.9s	264.9	 So I'm feeding him like this and then I'm gonna say free and get him to back up or whatever cue you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=272.0s	272.0	 for him to for your dog to get out of the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=275.0s	275.0	 And then you throw a treat away so I could say free or I could say undress or whatever you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=282.6s	282.6	 so I'm gonna say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=284.2s	284.2	 Put on your harness and hold the treat here and then mark and reinforce multiple times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=290.3s	290.3	 Now I can start marking and then when I'm when he's done and I want him to get out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=295.1s	295.1	 I'm gonna give a cue so he doesn't just back out on his own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=299.0s	299.0	 So I'm gonna say undress and then I'm gonna lure his head out of the harness and then throw a treat and say get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=305.2s	305.2	 So I didn't mark usually I use a clicker as I talk and mark the exact moments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=311.2s	311.2	 But I don't want to click near his head if you are going to use a clicker where you're holding it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=317.6s	317.6	 Say for example, I'm gonna hold the clicker and this in my hand I can I can click and feed like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=325.1s	325.1	 And then I'm gonna say un-dress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=327.7s	327.7	 Good job and then have him push his head back out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=330.8s	330.8	 But I've got a huge glob of poster tack on my clicker so that it muffles it so I can put it like right near my ear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=337.7s	337.7	 And it's not loud at all put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=341.5s	341.5	 Good boy. Did you see the millisecond? He kind of looked around the corner of the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=346.5s	346.5	 So if the dog goes around and goes to your hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=349.1s	349.1	 And then walk away like this and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=352.6s	352.6	 Represent the harness with the treat so the dog knows that if he goes around it's not just that you're gonna feed him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=359.0s	359.0	 You don't need to tell your dog. He's wrong
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=360.9s	360.9	 You just have to show him what he does need to do in order to get the reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=366.7s	366.7	 If you've used luring to train this behavior, you can then pretend to hold a treat say put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=372.6s	372.6	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=373.2s	373.2	 And as the dog puts his head through show him that you have no treat in your hand and then go and get a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=379.3s	379.3	 So there he backed up to get the treat off the floor. I'm gonna put the treats away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=383.3s	383.3	 I'm gonna say put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=385.8s	385.8	 Good, and then I'm gonna go get the treat from a direction that is facing forward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=391.6s	391.6	 So if it's the treat back here, you can see that's gonna make him back out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=395.0s	395.0	 So I have the treats here put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=397.9s	397.9	 Good, and he didn't go in all the way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=400.8s	400.8	 I want him to go in more forcefully so it touches his chest like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=404.8s	404.8	 So I'm gonna say good and then feed him so that he leans into the harness like that. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=411.2s	411.2	 And he's backing out before I give the cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=413.9s	413.9	 So what that tells me is I need to not just do one treat where he's then predicting he's gonna do the behavior again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=420.5s	420.5	 But do multiple treats and then give him a release cue get undressed or whatever for me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=427.0s	427.0	 It's gonna be free but I thought get undressed sounds funny for a service dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=430.7s	430.7	 The final step is getting rid of the lure completely either your dog can offer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=435.6s	435.6	 putting their head in like that and you can mark and reinforce multiple times before then releasing your dog free or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=444.4s	444.4	 Say your cue if you think your dog's going to do it put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=448.1s	448.1	 But they might not do it in the exact way that you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=451.4s	451.4	 So see how he kind of I haven't worked on this with him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=454.2s	454.2	 But he hasn't put his head through as as forcefully or as far enough into the hoop that I wanted him to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=461.6s	461.6	 So what I can do is because the criteria is higher and the lure isn't there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=466.2s	466.2	 I'm gonna mark and reinforce a lower level of behavior that I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=470.7s	470.7	 So I say put on your harness. Yes, and then I'm gonna feed him for having his head further in so I'm marking him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=477.4s	477.4	 Offering and feeding in the position that I want him to be and then see if I can build it now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=482.9s	482.9	 If he doesn't think to put his head in further and further I can get some offering put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=488.0s	488.0	 Good, and then I can go back to the game of just having him touch my hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=494.0s	494.0	 Ready put on your harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=496.4s	496.4	 Good and build that desire and push into the harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=501.0s	501.0	 Using the hand target or the lure and then working in amongst the trials of doing that on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=507.9s	507.9	 Getting him to offer it. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=510.2s	510.2	 If you check out my Instagram you might see him doing a stronger head push into this hula hoop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=515.8s	515.8	 After we've practiced it a little bit, but this was his first lesson doing this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=519.9s	519.9	 So just so you know for optimal conditioning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=523.0s	523.0	 I suggest working on the exercise at least 12 times for a minute every day before trying it with the real harness and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 expecting the dog to find the cue put on your harness reinforcing and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=536.5s	536.5	 The dog to be able to generalize it to the new to the old harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=540.2s	540.2	 Now if you need to put your dog in a harness in between the training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=545.3s	545.3	 You can do something like go in the car with your dog without the harness on and just before they're about to get out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=551.1s	551.1	 Of the door you can slip the harness over their head feed a treat and jump out the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=555.2s	555.2	 So the dog isn't in your living room with nothing going on and the one thing that's going on to their body is a harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=562.9s	562.9	 I like to describe it as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=565.4s	565.4	 If you're wearing uncomfortable clothes and you go to a party and there's lots of stuff going on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=570.6s	570.6	 You're less likely to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=572.8s	572.8	 Conscious of that. Maybe your shoes are too tight or your pant your belt is too tight or you're wearing a shirt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=578.5s	578.5	 That's itchy where if you were in your living room and you put on some tight fitting shoes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=584.3s	584.3	 You're going to be very hyper aware of it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=587.0s	587.0	 So if the only thing in the environment is the harness touching their body and they don't like it, it's going to be less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=593.0s	593.0	 They're going to have the attention drawn to it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=594.9s	594.9	 So in between the conditioning of getting the dog to enjoy putting it on you put it on in an environment where the dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=602.2s	602.2	 Interested and motivated to do something and then the harness goes on and then they get to go on a sniffy walk or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=608.1s	608.1	 Or they get into a training session with treats outside. Are you ready? He said nope. I'm listening to you talk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=614.6s	614.6	 So I'm going to practice with this harness now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=617.7s	617.7	 So I'm going to go back to the original step of throwing a treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=621.2s	621.2	 And then feeding him like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=624.4s	624.4	 Good job, and then I'm also going to practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=628.7s	628.7	 Walking away from him get it get it get it and getting him motivated to move fast towards it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=635.4s	635.4	 Get it get it get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=637.6s	637.6	 Good and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=639.6s	639.6	 As you can see he's not that big of a fan of having his harness put on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=645.0s	645.0	 So that's why I want to train him this because it's a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=648.7s	648.7	 I want to train him this because it's easy when he's sitting in my car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=652.8s	652.8	 And I just slip it over his head because he's focused on getting out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=656.0s	656.0	 But I've not worked on it inside the house like this and you can see Bussy come here if I go to put it on his head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=665.8s	665.8	 I can do it, but he's also backing up so instead of just continuously doing that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=671.2s	671.2	 I'm going to work on the cue of him confidently putting his head through there get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=676.4s	676.4	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=677.8s	677.8	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=679.9s	679.9	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=682.6s	682.6	 Whoop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=685.0s	685.0	 Put it on good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=688.7s	688.7	 three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=690.8s	690.8	 Can you do paw thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=697.0s	697.0	 Leave me a comment as it's highly reinforcing and subscribe to my channel for more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=702.4s	702.4	 Free dog training videos on how to train your dog without the use of physical or psychological intimidation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htAV_ToCxlk&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=66&pp=iAQB&t=710.0s	710.0	 See you later
