https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone! This is a quick video on teaching your dog to walk at your side and stop at your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=5.7s	5.7	 side when you stop without having treats in your hand. Oftentimes, new trainers or people new to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=13.3s	13.3	 using food to train their dogs will get stuck on the step of having a treat here in their hand to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=20.4s	20.4	 get the dog to stay with them and it looks great. But as soon as the treat is out of the hand, the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=27.0s	27.0	 dog is off and not interested in wanting to be at your side. So why is that happening? The reason
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 that's happening is because when you have a treat here in front of your dog's face, that is the cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=40.2s	40.2	 to do the behavior. That is the strongest, most predictable cue to mean do the behavior. So what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 is a really good idea before you start not using food at all and trying to ask your dog to do the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 behavior in order to gain access to reinforces in the environment is fading the treat lure or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=61.0s	61.0	 your target if you're using targeting instead of treats to teach the position. You can also use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=66.8s	66.8	 free shaping where you reinforce your dog for staying at your side and just shape approximations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=73.4s	73.4	 of walking at your side and the different turns. But if you're using treats and targeting,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=78.1s	78.1	 fading that lure is a great idea when the dog is stationary and also when the dog is moving. So here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=84.5s	84.5	 she is in the sit position and I'm going to be marking and reinforcing her like that at my side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=90.2s	90.2	 and then what I'm going to do is take my treat. I have some under the clicker here. The hand that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=96.3s	96.3	 next to the dog, I'm going to take the treats that I'm going to be feeding her and put them behind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 my back and while she's sitting at my side not looking at the treats, that's when I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=106.0s	106.0	 mark and reinforce. So seeing me here is the cue to be at my side or looking forward. Her location
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 being next to me is the cue to stay there and get the treats, not the treats being the cue to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=121.8s	121.8	 there. So the next step is walking around. So at first you want to warm the dog up by using whatever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 method you did to teach the dog to walk at your side. Maybe you lured the dog with a treat or maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=133.9s	133.9	 you used a hand target and asked your dog to touch to get your dog to be at your side.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=139.4s	139.4	 Will she touch? She said what's going on? Touch and then when the dog is moving you can start to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=146.1s	146.1	 fade the target either up in front of you like this and then eventually go to where you can put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=154.0s	154.0	 it behind your back. So she's walking here and I move the target higher up. Let's go encourage her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=159.8s	159.8	 and then when she's doing good with moving the target further away up I can then move the target
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=165.4s	165.4	 further away behind and mark that step forward and then feed forward if the dog is lagging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=173.6s	173.6	 and if the dog is is foraging I'm going to feed back. So say for example my hands disappear,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=184.4s	184.4	 the dog comes out here, I'm going to say mark for the dog not looking at the treat but then I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=190.4s	190.4	 going to lure the dog back right next to me and nice and straight and feed the treat or if the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=196.5s	196.5	 dog's gone behind me to look at where I hid the treat then I'm going to encourage the dog forward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=202.8s	202.8	 with my other hand, mark for following, for not looking at the treat and then lure the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=209.7s	209.7	 forwards a little bit into the nice position and then feed. So the dog is learning oh the location
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 that the treat happens is always when I'm right next to the person there's no treat there but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=222.4s	222.4	 it's going to suddenly whoop appear in front of my face and that is going to train your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 not to be dependent on the food being in the training picture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=232.7s	232.7	 Now we're going to put some treats over here, ready wishy tight,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=245.9s	245.9	 good so she moved towards the treats but I'm going to move her back and feed her in the position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=253.4s	253.4	 at my side like that, good so I'm going to reach for the chicken and feed her here and what you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=260.0s	260.0	 can see is she's going to stop going forwards for the chicken because the only time she gets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=266.6s	266.6	 the chicken is right there. Now if every time I reach and she comes forwards and then I lure her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=271.7s	271.7	 back that can turn into a behavior chain so you want to be quick so one thing you can do in an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=278.7s	278.7	 exercise like this where the food is away from your person say in the future you want your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=283.4s	283.4	 to walk at your side and then greet another dog or person or sniff a bush for walking on a loose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=288.6s	288.6	 leash or walking at your side like this off leash what you can do is you have treats in the hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=295.2s	295.2	 next to your dog and as you go to reach for the chicken like this good you can then feed the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=300.2s	300.2	 like this or good and get your dog used to the fact that you're doing this doesn't mean to to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=306.2s	306.2	 go forward and then when they're starting to stay at your side then you can practice reaching and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=311.0s	311.0	 getting a treat and moving around and then reaching for a treat off of you so the dog is learning oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=317.7s	317.7	 I stay with her and that gets me the reinforcement rather than this this this is not training the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=324.9s	324.9	 anything except to follow a lure which is great for training new behaviors as you can see you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=331.7s	331.7	 train a lot of behaviors so pretty get it get it get it using a treat in your hand like that and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=339.4s	339.4	 that's great it's a way to communicate how to train something new but it's not going to teach the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=344.6s	344.6	 to do it without the treat being there you always have to fade the lure if you don't want to have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=350.5s	350.5	 the treat in front of your dog's nose on a walk which I don't even think is a very healthy thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=355.8s	355.8	 for a dog to be looking at a target or a treat while they're walking you want your dog to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=360.9s	360.9	 enjoying the environment if you're on a walk together like this where she knows where to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=365.8s	365.8	 and she can check out and smell the breeze in whatever direction she wants if we were walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=370.8s	370.8	 down a busy street or sniff around if it was like a more casual position at my side or if it's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=376.9s	376.9	 a obedience or he'll work to music I want her to understand the concept of the behavior gets the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=385.8s	385.8	 treat not the treat cueing the behavior if that makes sense and that's going to greatly reduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=392.1s	392.1	 frustration when the treats are out of the picture or the dog doesn't feel like the treats or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=397.4s	397.4	 reinforcers you have you can use anything in the environment as a reinforcer anything the dog wants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=403.8s	403.8	 hey wishy are you ready so let's practice with this chicken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=415.1s	415.1	 good girl tight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=416.6s	416.6	 tight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=424.2s	424.2	 good tight so I could also mark her here good and then I could say let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=434.7s	434.7	 good job and do a less formal approach to the treats but if you mark the dog away from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=441.1s	441.1	 treats most likely they're going to want to gravitate to where they get them so the further
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=446.0s	446.0	 away from the treats you get you might want to have some treats on your body so say the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=451.4s	451.4	 the treat distraction is over there if you're like 30 feet away from the treats you might start to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=456.5s	456.5	 a problem marking and then having to get to the treats because that's very predictable you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=462.1s	462.1	 your reinforcers to be unpredictable with dogs because they start to anticipate it so they'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=467.0s	467.0	 want to go faster towards the treat area if they really want them so if you're further away and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=472.8s	472.8	 you're practicing heel work with no treats you mark the treats are far away and surprise I have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=478.0s	478.0	 a treat near me and that's really going to create some reliable behaviors in your dogs thank you so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=485.4s	485.4	 much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to like comment and subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=490.6s	490.6	 to my channel you can also become a supporting member of channel Kikopup by clicking the join
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=496.0s	496.0	 button which gains you access to one extra members video a month that you can find in the community
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEMTanJ6kNo&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=67&pp=iAQB&t=501.5s	501.5	 section of my youtube channel see you later wishy can you sit pretty both paws
