https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this video is on the topic of predation, my own story of my dog Cloud
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 that I wanted to share with you all. The issue was now solved but I did want to share with you my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=13.7s	13.7	 insights about it because I do think it's very interesting. Now he looks like a cute little fluffy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 boy but my management and prevention plan of keeping the squirrels out of my yard failed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=27.5s	27.5	 this spring when the baby squirrels were coming out of the ground and I thought I had the whole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=35.9s	35.9	 area secured but they found ways to get into the dog area and come in unexpectedly. I do use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=44.4s	44.4	 management and prevention to prevent the squirrels coming into the yard as well as gophers and rats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=50.9s	50.9	 As you can see here there's some of the metal that I've laid out, metal underneath the ground,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=56.2s	56.2	 epic's going to help me reveal it with cloth and then I put dirt or wood chips over it so that it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 makes a nice flat surface for the dogs to move on without squirrels and gophers coming up which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=69.4s	69.4	 not only great for preventing the squirrels and gophers from getting surprised of being suddenly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=74.6s	74.6	 in a large quantity of dogs but also that the dogs don't put their feet into the gopher holes and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=82.1s	82.1	 or squirrel holes and then break their legs which can happen or at least injure themselves. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 one thing is is that where I've planted things or where the trees are that's where the squirrels
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=95.3s	95.3	 have come up unexpectedly and sadly that is how a cloud has killed them so I was really not expecting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=105.0s	105.0	 it. I wish it hadn't happened but I'm wanting to be honest with you that yeah he's killed some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=111.8s	111.8	 squirrels. I also put up pest proof fencing to keep the rabbits and squirrels out of my yard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=118.3s	118.3	 but of course nature finds a way so they found ways to to get in that I hadn't thought of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=125.0s	125.0	 being around trees and things like that. This fencing is great also for keeping snakes out so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=131.6s	131.6	 keeping my dogs safe and giving me peace of mind. So I had not worked on recall proofing with cloud
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=140.2s	140.2	 when he was six months old and so I wasn't even noticing I was on my computer outside doing work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=148.6s	148.6	 and suddenly there's this little terrier with a dead squirrel in his mouth so sadly it took
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=154.7s	154.7	 five squirrels for me to realize that that this wasn't going to stop that it wasn't a freak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=159.4s	159.4	 occurrence and so as a vegan I sometimes you know slip into vegetarianism. I don't particularly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=171.5s	171.5	 want to use dogs to keep animals off my property. I have no need for that. I understand that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=179.1s	179.1	 that in the past and in already all over the world how useful these dogs are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=188.0s	188.0	 to maintain things like food for livestock and prevent it getting spoiled by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=195.9s	195.9	 other animals so I understand the function of the behavior and why for thousands of years we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=202.5s	202.5	 we bred it into dogs but I don't particularly need it here. I did see it in action actually.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=209.6s	209.6	 The squirrel came out of the bottom of the tree. Cloud happened to be there. He grabbed the squirrel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=215.0s	215.0	 instantaneously killed it and then went about his day in the most calm relaxed manner. Cloud
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=221.8s	221.8	 you're a murderer. Look what you've done. You killed the squirrel on my field.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=228.3s	228.3	 Everyone else didn't even notice and it was so odd to me because I you know had been living with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=234.2s	234.2	 sight hounds before and after chasing or seeing prey they could spend days excited and looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=242.0s	242.0	 for more so these little guys terriers that's what I think is is is driving cloud's instinct
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=252.0s	252.0	 to want to kill. Their function what they've been bred for is 24-7 making sure that there's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=260.9s	260.9	 little animals in say for example an area where food is stored or crops or whatever and so bliss
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=269.3s	269.3	 bliss is going to block the view so it would make sense that that a dog could do their job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=278.4s	278.4	 and then not be stressed by it the whole day if their job was to function the whole day long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=285.9s	285.9	 and night to to get to sadly to kill things so it really made sense so there was this interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=295.1s	295.1	 quality of of seeing his calmness after what he did he had no interest in the squirrel. He knew
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=302.5s	302.5	 he had this instinct to see it kill it and then the job it was of no interest to play or or do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=313.4s	313.4	 anything with the squirrel. When the issue first started occurring in the spring I was very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=318.8s	318.8	 concerned thinking oh my goodness you know it's so instinctual that if he sees a squirrel and it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=327.1s	327.1	 you know available he knows that there's no fence in between I'm not going to be able to call him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=332.3s	332.3	 back. What if he runs across the road and goes after the squirrel because he's gone you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=337.9s	337.9	 into a predation mode. What am I going to do his recall is going to be ruined oh no I haven't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=345.0s	345.0	 proved the recall so because I got the two puppies at the same time I really just and they're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=350.6s	350.6	 happy-go-lucky easy dogs I've just been really enjoying them and not doing that much training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=356.1s	356.1	 so there are two aspects of this story one all dogs are different so some dogs are easier than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=366.0s	366.0	 others and the fact that his predation issue he killed five squirrels and then suddenly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=373.7s	373.7	 with just a tiny bit of training you know a day or two of calling him away from wildlife
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=381.2s	381.2	 um the issue was gone I can call him away from prey so that can't that can be personality based
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=391.1s	391.1	 all dogs are different so if someone says oh this technique worked for my dog you should use it all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=396.6s	396.6	 dogs are different you have litter mates someone has one litter mate and you have the other they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=403.0s	403.0	 did this the problem went away you have an extreme problem no matter what technique your dogs got a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=410.0s	410.0	 different personality and genetics than the sibling so that's a really important part of this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=415.0s	415.0	 story but also um the part that I wanted to talk about is that I hadn't done I hadn't done much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=424.2s	424.2	 proofing of the recall or training I just enjoying my puppies these cloud and bliss
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=432.2s	432.2	 I've just been enjoying having them around I suffered a lot from uh a lot three of my dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=438.6s	438.6	 died within the same year um sadly Kiko it was recent but so I haven't done that much training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=446.2s	446.2	 I've just been enjoying bliss bliss blissie come here I've just been enjoying the presence of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=454.2s	454.2	 in my life it's been wonderful I they're they're very healing beautiful creatures and uh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=462.2s	462.2	 there's a squirrel at the moment but uh so the the point of this story is that um
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=470.5s	470.5	 I hadn't done any training and suddenly I was getting results and I was like how is this even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=474.8s	474.8	 possible and then I was like ah this is what it is uh it's the relationship and trust it's like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=483.1s	483.1	 scientific experiment if I you know I'm a dog trainer so I always get told uh you know your dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=490.7s	490.7	 it's easy with your dogs because you're training them all the time but in this case I wasn't well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=495.8s	495.8	 now the trash has arrived so you might hear my trash being picked up but um in this case it wasn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=502.7s	502.7	 I'd done very little training uh but what I had worked on unconsciously because I use positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=509.4s	509.4	 reinforcement I don't use any forms of intimidation I build trust and confidence and and and build my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=517.0s	517.0	 relationship with my dogs through positive interactions all of it was easy to solve the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=524.5s	524.5	 problem because I had that relationship and trust so that you know I always really I would say it um
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=532.8s	532.8	 but the scientific part for me in my brain was the the reinforcement so it was all about uh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=539.4s	539.4	 training and reinforcement and of course you need a relationship and trust first but to see such
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=545.7s	545.7	 results with just the relationship and trust that I'd built in my dogs so instead of working on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=552.6s	552.6	 recall uh with these guys what I had been doing was just simply every time they went out to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=558.7s	558.7	 bathroom and came back in I'd give them a treat so everyone would go out they'd be milling around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=565.2s	565.2	 then I'd need to call them back in so I'd call them back in and give them a treat that's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=569.4s	569.4	 the only training that I did and then I just added on that so um really having a dog that trusts you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=578.6s	578.6	 wants to be with you and you've really built that caring trusting relationship with them that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=584.4s	584.4	 really going to help your training so that's really uh the moral of the story for for this video and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=591.2s	591.2	 um I actually do have footage of the of the moment that uh a rabbit got into my property
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=599.8s	599.8	 and I was in shock because I didn't think you could call a dog off in the middle of trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=606.2s	606.2	 kill an animal so I'd seen him kill five squirrels and then I just tried to recall I'd never even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=612.7s	612.7	 proved and he came back he didn't want the food but he came back anyway uh because of relationship
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=622.0s	622.0	 and trust cloud cloud good boy good boy good boy so it's a really really powerful thing that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=636.1s	636.1	 can build with your dog and it takes time the same with people uh there was a time where our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=643.1s	643.1	 trust was broken and and I was very worried uh I had taken him to have his rabies shot he'd been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=650.2s	650.2	 great at the vet before and something happened I wasn't allowed to go in to get the to get the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=656.0s	656.0	 rabies shot uh and covid uh but they said that the the first shot went well and the rabies he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=664.7s	664.7	 he he didn't do well I didn't even ask I didn't want to know because that was in the past but uh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=671.6s	671.6	 a few days later I went to pick him up and as I picked him up he got very scared and most likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=679.1s	679.1	 it could be the pain in his body from the shot or remembering being grabbed or restrained and so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=687.4s	687.4	 I saw him be scared of me for the first time and it took a few months he even didn't want to train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=693.6s	693.6	 with me because at the time that I was picking him up I had the treat bags I was working on taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=698.6s	698.6	 a picture a group picture of the dogs so anytime I tried to group the dogs together he would look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=704.5s	704.5	 at me and get scared and want to go away and it broke my heart so I worked on that and I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=711.8s	711.8	 that is the one key to why I gained his trust again uh and and and and now he wants to listen to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=719.6s	719.6	 me uh and finds it reinforcing besides doing a little bit of proofing uh with calling them away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=725.7s	725.7	 from seeing squirrels while on leash or behind a fence um this one incident of when our trust was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=732.9s	732.9	 broken and really my focus on building it back uh you know in small steps really helped with uh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=741.7s	741.7	 gaining his trust again gaining his confidence in me and his interest in wanting to be with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=746.9s	746.9	 so so that's the moral of the story I hope you guys found it interesting I do have a video on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=754.0s	754.0	 demand on called harnessing the hunter that goes over working with dogs that uh that have issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=760.6s	760.6	 with being either over aroused or excited about prey and getting them to calm down so they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=767.4s	767.4	 so they can function uh around prey and listen to you so for safety and also to prevent them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=774.7s	774.7	 killing animals uh so you know some people want to hunt and use their dogs for hunting and I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=782.6s	782.6	 saying that you shouldn't that that's your own thing you can do that but this type of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=787.7s	787.7	 would be beneficial where you could ask your dog to do it and then also tell them when it's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=792.6s	792.6	 appropriate say for example like the neighbor's cat or or something like that so with cloud the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=799.3s	799.3	 training that I did was interrupt it when it was happening by using a recall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=804.7s	804.7	 and then also teaching him a default leave it so when you see prey it's not for eating it's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=811.0s	811.0	 for killing it's just for looking so they can be loose they can see prey but it's not uh it's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=818.8s	818.8	 something that they need to run and grab and kill the other thing I worked on with him is playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=824.6s	824.6	 tug and fetch so he got to have a fun time and one of his favorite things is uh the I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=832.1s	832.1	 know why I did that but but like turning on a hose with a one of those guns so that it makes a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=838.0s	838.0	 night that's why it makes a nice spray of water um and then having him chase the water and bite it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=844.0s	844.0	 he loves doing that so he gets to do uh fun fun uh chasing games killing games with this is super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=852.6s	852.6	 gross but like toys like this and we play together and he gets to practice his skills at killing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=859.4s	859.4	 but without kill actually killing real animals um so another thing that I thought oh my goodness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=865.8s	865.8	 what if I had someone with a really tiny chihuahua visit and he thinks it's a squirrel like the speed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=871.0s	871.0	 at which he killed the squirrel was shocking I was like whoa I have a stone cold murderer in my house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=879.0s	879.0	 this is slightly weird for me and I had thought to myself I'll never get a terrier again after tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=885.0s	885.0	 but I love them I think they're amazing they're so smart and so talented so um that's the story
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjW6jfvP41c&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=69&pp=iAQB&t=892.6s	892.6	 I hope you found it interesting and see you later
