https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this video is on the topic of loose leash walking tips for when your dog starts to pull on leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=7.5s	7.5	 After you've already trained your dog to walk on a loose leash and suddenly the pulling comes back. So there's two parts to this one is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=15.9s	15.9	 going back and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=17.8s	17.8	 Reinforcing loose leash walking with proofing games so that you're getting that behavior back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=23.2s	23.2	 That's getting lost and also assessing why the dog might be pulling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=28.4s	28.4	 So if the issue was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 Fear based or arousal based going back and working on loose leash walking is not going to be as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=38.7s	38.7	 Helpful as figuring out what's making your dog excited and what's making your dogs?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=44.2s	44.2	 Fearful went out and about say for example you go out the door and suddenly a dog's pulling maybe it was the 4th of July
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=51.4s	51.4	 The day before the dog heard a noise and now the dog is sensitized in that sort of circumstance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=57.3s	57.3	 I would suggest not going for a long walk where your dog is going to pull you around the block
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 And be hyper vigilant. So if you notice that your dog is acting worried their tail is low between their legs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=70.9s	70.9	 They're shivering. They're looking around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=73.4s	73.4	 I would just go home if they need to go to the bathroom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=76.8s	76.8	 I would take if you have a small dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=79.1s	79.1	 you can even carry the dog to the area where hopefully they'll go to the bathroom and then I would just go inside and and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=85.9s	85.9	 play games like finding treats around the house and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=89.9s	89.9	 mental stimulation games and just get the dog into a calmer state of mind if something has stressed the dog you could also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=97.9s	97.9	 put on noise makers inside the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=101.5s	101.5	 such as a fan or a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=105.5s	105.5	 a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=106.7s	106.7	 White noise machine or calm music so that the dog can start to relax and just by giving the dog a little vacation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=114.5s	114.5	 from the walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=116.1s	116.1	 that can really help and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=118.3s	118.3	 Consider if the if the scary incident happened say for example your dog was on a walk and got scared by something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=124.9s	124.9	 One of the neighbors houses something happened there and the dog is scared of the part in front of your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=131.0s	131.0	 Go in the car go somewhere else for a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=134.1s	134.1	 And walk somewhere else you can try that and see if that works if your dog is more scared walking there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=139.7s	139.7	 you might consider the break or trying another location or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=144.4s	144.4	 Or if the dog is the best in front of your house go back to that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=149.0s	149.0	 But I would walk back and forth in front of your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=153.6s	153.6	 investigating the grass you can point out things that your dog might find interesting so they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=159.5s	159.5	 Stop thinking about being hyper vigilant and you can go and point at the grass
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=164.1s	164.1	 So they get more interested in exploring the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=168.4s	168.4	 Slowly rather than ooh got to escape
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=171.3s	171.3	 And by walking back and forth you won't get so far away that if you want to go home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=175.9s	175.9	 You're not going to get there because they're going to want to pull pull back home
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=180.3s	180.3	 Okay, so that's one scenario another scenario is that your dog is excited to be outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=185.8s	185.8	 maybe your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=187.9s	187.9	 Just realizing that he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 Like my boy bliss that he's interested in female dogs actually my other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=195.1s	195.1	 I have I raised two puppies at the same time my little dog cloud is also interested in female dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=201.0s	201.0	 But he's he's mr. Chill. He's mr. Easy puppy that makes me look good, so he walks on a loose leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=207.3s	207.3	 No problem, and it's just genetics. It's just genetics, but bliss is like oh boy females
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=212.9s	212.9	 Let me let me at him so in those scenarios
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=216.7s	216.7	 It's not really about the leash walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=220.0s	220.0	 That you need to focus on you're focusing on the issue of arousal or excitement and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=226.2s	226.2	 the concept of impulse control so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=230.4s	230.4	 If your dog is just excited to be outside you just bring a saddle mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=235.3s	235.3	 to the park and just sit or on a picnic blanket and just sit with your dog on a leash and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=241.5s	241.5	 Reinforce your dog for settling or just being with you then what you can do is take little mini walks away from the mat and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=249.1s	249.1	 Return to the mat and then settle again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=252.0s	252.0	 So you're not going in a long circuit where your dog is going to pull or predict where he's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=257.6s	257.6	 Because as soon as they predict where they're headed they see a tree in the distance. You're going ahead. They smell something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=262.9s	262.9	 They're going to keep pulling to the tree
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=264.5s	264.5	 But if you're doing these weaving pathways and then returning to the mat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=268.1s	268.1	 They're going to be less likely to pull especially if they've passed the areas
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=272.4s	272.4	 So the the function of doing this exercise is to break the steps up smaller
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=277.4s	277.4	 It's going to be easier for the dog to do small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=282.1s	282.1	 Small journeys where he where it's unpredictable and easier because they'll have smelled that area already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=287.6s	287.6	 So they won't be as excited about it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=291.0s	291.0	 You can also choose the right location. That's going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=294.6s	294.6	 Easier for your dog if you really have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=297.2s	297.2	 Excitable dog you might go somewhere that has less people in dogs if your dogs really social or if your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=305.7s	305.7	 Hypervigilant when there's just like one person coming over the horizon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=309.2s	309.2	 You might go to a busier park where there's like a milling crowd and they're just seeing people and dogs in the distance moving around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=315.6s	315.6	 Rather than all quiet in a field and boom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=318.5s	318.5	 There's a loose dog at the end of the field and they're like hyper vigilant or wanting to pull towards that dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=324.3s	324.3	 So choosing the right environment for learning is really going to be the key to success with leash walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=330.6s	330.6	 Rather than going out with a bag of food and stuffing your dog full of treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=335.6s	335.6	 Hoping that this stressed out dog or over aroused dog will start walking on a loose leash because he's eating at the same time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=342.5s	342.5	 That's not the boat. That's not the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=344.8s	344.8	 Efficient and reliable way to train it's really being careful about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=349.7s	349.7	 Choosing the right environments and breaking the steps up small enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=354.1s	354.1	 The next tip is that instead of working on the pulling issues where you're having the pulling issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 It's a great idea to go back and retrain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=363.8s	363.8	 Reinforce and proof the loose leash walking behaviors where your dog is going to be successful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=369.8s	369.8	 And you can make it highly reinforcing again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=373.0s	373.0	 Because if you're in those situations where your dog is pulling it's going to be harder for your dog to pay attention and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=379.4s	379.4	 Also, their body is not going to find the reinforcement as reinforcing because of the distractors in the environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=386.9s	386.9	 So a lot of people wonder why I'm always training in my inside my house or my yard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=391.7s	391.7	 It's because that's where you condition strong behaviors. So when you do go out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=396.9s	396.9	 You have these strong powerful behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=399.4s	399.4	 But if you do all your training for loose leash walking outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=402.6s	402.6	 You're competing with the environment all the time and your reinforcers might not be as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=408.8s	408.8	 Powerful in those environments. So I really harness the power of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=413.5s	413.5	 Reinforcements with no distractions to build those strong behaviors make the dog enjoy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=418.5s	418.5	 Do not make the dog but get that dog enjoying walking with you being with you connecting with you having a relationship with you and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=426.2s	426.2	 Bring that to the street. So I'm gonna connect I'm gonna put some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=431.5s	431.5	 Tutorials in the description exercises to work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=435.5s	435.5	 You're going to refresh those exercises and I suggest if you suddenly have a regression to pulling especially around adolescence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=444.7s	444.7	 Because when you taught your puppy loose leash walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=447.9s	447.9	 It was like there were a baby like you learning some words in a different language
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=453.8s	453.8	 When you're two or three and then suddenly someone asking you when you're 16
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=459.6s	459.6	 If you remember the lessons, you're gonna be like no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=462.3s	462.3	 So that's the same with adolescent dogs for us. It was just a few months ago for them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=467.4s	467.4	 It was when they were a baby and now they're a teenager. They don't remember any of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=471.5s	471.5	 That's why they're pulling on leash again. So or most likely that can be one of the issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=477.6s	477.6	 That's just an opinion not based on science
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=481.0s	481.0	 But to me it makes a lot of sense that they're not going to remember those lessons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=485.3s	485.3	 Especially when they're in a different body having different emotions. It's a whole other situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=491.5s	491.5	 And their desires are completely different at that point in time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=495.1s	495.1	 So you need to work on it again and need to work on different distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=498.8s	498.8	 So I'll link the videos in the description below and I suggest if you have this regression around adolescence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=505.9s	505.9	 I would suggest doing at least 12 one to two minute training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=511.6s	511.6	 Before you expect to see amazing results
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=514.6s	514.6	 So that's just two weeks where you sit in your living room and you do a tiny bit of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=519.8s	519.8	 One to two minutes not a big deal and really make an effort to put in those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=528.3s	528.3	 Training training minutes and then you can do a little bit of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=533.2s	533.2	 Training training minutes and that is going to build strong behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=539.4s	539.4	 Training with no distraction and then proofing with distractions that are that the dog is going to be able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=546.3s	546.3	 to move away from within like two to three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=550.9s	550.9	 Repetitions if your dog is struggling and you keep and goes more than three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=558.2s	558.2	 Repetitions where they're having a hard time lower criteria
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=561.8s	561.8	 So the the the way that brain the brain works and reinforcement and conditioning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=569.1s	569.1	 Is is very similar to how muscles are built?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=572.3s	572.3	 So the concept of like oh, I'm gonna I'm gonna go out and train my dog not to pull on a leash in one day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=578.5s	578.5	 And then you're out there drilling your dog and and your dog's walking on a loose leash. That's not going to make long-term results
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=584.7s	584.7	 That's like doing a hundred push-ups in one day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=587.7s	587.7	 That's not going to build muscle and the same with neural connections in the brain by repeating and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=595.0s	595.0	 reinforcing that's what builds connections and memory and the desire to want to to walk with you is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=602.6s	602.6	 Repetition and it doesn't have to be a lot of time. I'm suggesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=607.8s	607.8	 Just one to two minutes walking on a loose leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=611.3s	611.3	 12 times maybe you do six times one week and then you go a week and then you do it six times again and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=617.9s	617.9	 There you go. You'll see amazing results because usually what happens is people do one or two lessons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=624.5s	624.5	 They go walk their dog the dog pulls and then they lose faith they give up and the same with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=630.3s	630.3	 Exercise you really have to create a plan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=633.6s	633.6	 Write it down and stick to it and see if you're going to get those results after you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=639.7s	639.7	 Expect to see results only after the the 12 sessions rather than think. Ah, I've done three sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=646.0s	646.0	 The dog is not learning. I give up. Let me just let him pull or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=650.7s	650.7	 I'll just yell at him. So I hope these tips helped you with your training. Don't give up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=656.3s	656.3	 It's a hard behavior for most dogs to learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=659.6s	659.6	 There's some easy dogs like my little cloud and my little epic that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=664.7s	664.7	 Naturally just want to walk with me and don't get excited by stuff but for dogs that are social
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=670.2s	670.2	 Be glad that they're social. That's a wonderful wonderful thing and for dogs that are fearful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=676.5s	676.5	 Teaching them these games to connect with you is going to help with the fear issues too. They're gonna trust you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=683.3s	683.3	 you're gonna be able to give them information and it's just a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=687.3s	687.3	 Really really great idea to focus on this right now if you're having the issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=691.7s	691.7	 I hope this information was helpful for your training if you'd like to support my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=696.2s	696.2	 Don't forget to like comment and subscribe to my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=699.5s	699.5	 You can also become a supporting member of channel Kiko pop by clicking the join button
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=704.7s	704.7	 Which gains access to an extra members video every month that you can find in the community section of my youtube channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzofWGgKn0k&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=70&pp=iAQB&t=712.6s	712.6	 See you later
