https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone and welcome to Kikopup's dog training tip of the day for today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=4.3s	4.3	 Today I'm going to give you a tip for teaching your dog to roll over. Now it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=8.5s	8.5	 extremely important not to ask your dog to roll over after they've had a lot to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=12.9s	12.9	 drink or a lot to eat because what can happen is the stomach can twist and it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=17.0s	17.0	 a really serious medical condition that you have to go to the hospital to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=21.6s	21.6	 them to twist the stomach back. So be very careful if you're worried or your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=25.7s	25.7	 dog has a tendency for bloat to happen then I suggest that you don't work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 this trick and instead you could work on just the dog. He said I'm gonna work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=35.6s	35.6	 crawl because that's what we just did for the members video but I suggest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=39.7s	39.7	 teaching the dog just to lay on their side instead of roll all the way over.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=43.9s	43.9	 Okay so whoops I keep dropping treats. Get it! So the first step is actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=50.6s	50.6	 getting the dog to tuck their elbow in so I'm gonna have him go the opposite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=55.1s	55.1	 direction and if I lure him this way this elbow is going to stick out and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=60.4s	60.4	 make it unable for me to lure him over like that. So what I'm gonna do is try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=66.2s	66.2	 and get him to tuck his elbow and mark that moment so I'm marking him laying on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=72.6s	72.6	 his elbow and if a dog is uncomfortable with being having a treat pushed into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=77.5s	77.5	 them like that they most likely aren't gonna roll onto their elbow like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=81.9s	81.9	 because then they're in a position where they where they're kind of trapped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=85.8s	85.8	 underneath you. So I suggest doing this at a distance without like leaning over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=90.6s	90.6	 your dog and choosing a surface they feel really comfortable with a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 traction. You might even use a cushier surface at first to get that initial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=99.6s	99.6	 behavior of the elbow tuck and that might just be what you do in the first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=104.4s	104.4	 one or two lessons especially if you have a dog that's not very comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 with being on their back so you're just getting the dog to tuck their elbow. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=112.4s	112.4	 next step is to get the dog on their side like this and that could be where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=116.9s	116.9	 you end if you're if you're worried about having your dog go all the way over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 but then once the dog is on the side you can then lift the treat up and you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=125.8s	125.8	 even support the dog. Did you see how his legs were kind of flailing? You can put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=129.5s	129.5	 your hand there and let the dog use you for support and I'm not going to use a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=133.8s	133.8	 clicker at this point but you can let your dog use you as support you're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=138.4s	138.4	 pushing your dog over you're just letting your hand help the dog as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=143.9s	143.9	 support so they don't feel like their paws are just flailing in the air. Whoo!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=149.2s	149.2	 And then when the dog gets better at it I'm gonna mark the elbow tuck going on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=155.9s	155.9	 to the side and then all the way over. I didn't mark I just was telling you when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=162.4s	162.4	 Hi! It can be very tempting while you're in this process when the dog starts to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=167.1s	167.1	 offer something really cute like bang like they play dead or something like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=171.3s	171.3	 that so it's really important to decide which you want to do which you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 train first. I suggest training rollover both ways and then training the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=180.6s	180.6	 behavior where you where you say bang just because it's hard like with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=188.4s	188.4	 movement behavior I think it's harder to train the dog going on their back and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=194.8s	194.8	 stopping and then turn that into a movement than to turn a movement into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=199.2s	199.2	 going only halfway but it's just that's just superstition. Okay so once the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=207.4s	207.4	 is reliably following the lure go get it and also did you see how he was I wanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=213.9s	213.9	 to roll the other way because this chairs in the way and I got him up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=217.4s	217.4	 because he had tucked himself the opposite direction so I'm gonna have him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=221.6s	221.6	 roll towards you. Good! So first I'm gonna have the treat right near his face and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=228.5s	228.5	 then I'm gonna get him used to the treat getting further away from him so to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=233.0s	233.0	 initially get the behavior started the treats gonna be near him and then I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=237.0s	237.0	 gonna start to not have a treat in my hand every time or try holding my hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=242.5s	242.5	 further and further away you can see we did experiment with dying with bang get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=248.1s	248.1	 it over here and to get the dog to continue moving I'm just gonna say get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=253.3s	253.3	 it and put the treat down and get him interested because he could get stuck
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=256.9s	256.9	 thinking that was a fun behavior. Good boy! Whoo! Get it! Now I'm gonna add a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=262.8s	262.8	 verbal cue so I'm just gonna say it before I lure the dog so I'm gonna say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=266.7s	266.7	 down give him a treat and then this direction for me is roll and the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=271.4s	271.4	 is tumble so I'm gonna say down roll. Whoo! Good job! Down roll. Get it! Down tumble!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=282.8s	282.8	 Good boy! And we'll stop there. Thank you so much for watching! If you'd like to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=288.6s	288.6	 support my work don't forget to like this video, leave me a comment, and you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=292.8s	292.8	 also subscribe to the channel or become a member of channel Kikopup and support
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciIBawFrhAQ&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=298.4s	298.4	 the videos that I make by clicking the join button. See you later!
