https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone, this is a thank you video as well as a call to action video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=5.1s	5.1	 Firstly, I want to thank Zach George for all that he's done for dog training for more than a decade
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=11.9s	11.9	 Now I started my youtube channel over a decade as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=15.9s	15.9	 And what I found out is that the more views my channel got the more stress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=21.8s	21.8	 I got because the more exposure you get the more negativity you get people come after you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=29.1s	29.1	 They want to say mean things about you if you get an easy puppy or a friendly easy puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=34.7s	34.7	 They say oh you got that puppy on purpose because you suck at training you get a hard puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=39.0s	39.0	 Oh, what did you do to the puppy?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=41.4s	41.4	 You must have done something if I had the puppy the puppy wouldn't be that hard you get a puppy that is hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=47.3s	47.3	 And they get a little bit better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=48.3s	48.3	 Oh if I had the puppy the puppy would be perfect you get a puppy that's hard and then the puppy gets to be perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=55.5s	55.5	 That was an easy puppy la la la
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=58.3s	58.3	 So anyway, everyone always has something negative to say about you and the more views you get the more negativity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=65.9s	65.9	 Comes like a dark cloud. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=69.4s	69.4	 there was a time where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=71.8s	71.8	 My youtube channel started getting more views and then I immediately shut down and just started doing seminars and conferences and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=79.7s	79.7	 Ignored YouTube for I guess it was five years, but Zach George kept going and he he created
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=88.3s	88.3	 So much content about positive reinforcement training and he made it fun and interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=95.4s	95.4	 For the general public people who know nothing about dog training to want to get into I know that sometimes my videos come off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=103.1s	103.1	 To trainery and my focus is on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=106.8s	106.8	 Training other trainers and it just isn't so welcoming for people to want to get involved in the training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=113.3s	113.3	 it can seem confusing and weird and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=116.4s	116.4	 the point of this story is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=119.3s	119.3	 I'd there it takes a lot of guts to be on the top and have that exposure and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=126.5s	126.5	 Not just have it destroy you and I mean wow, I'm just so so in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=133.3s	133.3	 admiration of what he's done and what he's done for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=137.2s	137.2	 positive reinforcement training now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=140.5s	140.5	 This video is not about oh, let's put positive reinforcement training so that it it hides everyone else's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=147.9s	147.9	 Types of training that's not what it's about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=150.6s	150.6	 It's about people being able to sit on their couch who have never
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=156.2s	156.2	 Were on their chair on their computer and who have never learned about dog training and having a choice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=162.3s	162.3	 So they get to see all these different types of training and they get to make up their own mind how they want to train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=168.5s	168.5	 so before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=170.3s	170.3	 There wasn't any exposure for positive reinforcement. There was very little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=175.5s	175.5	 The only reason I found out about it is because I fell into a humane society
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=180.2s	180.2	 That was training that way and it was like I fell with my bum in the butter and I wanted everyone else to have that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=186.7s	186.7	 Experience to get to make that choice of how you want to train. It's not about one method is better than the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=192.8s	192.8	 That's not what I'm saying in this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=194.7s	194.7	 Of course every trainer thinks their method is the best otherwise they wouldn't train that way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=200.0s	200.0	 The one thing that dog trainers can agree on is what the other dog trainer is doing wrong
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=204.9s	204.9	 So I really suggest that instead of making it a singular community
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=210.7s	210.7	 Which I've done myself where I've isolated myself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=213.6s	213.6	 I've stayed in my bubble and I've just ignored everyone else and focused on my work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=218.3s	218.3	 I think we can be more appreciative of other trainers who don't train the same way that we do and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=226.1s	226.1	 Support each other. I find actually sometimes the positive reinforcement training community can be quite cold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=233.2s	233.2	 And I get jealous and I think that a lot of people move on to other methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=238.2s	238.2	 Because they say one thing and everyone jumps on them and attacks them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 You know you write something about your puppy and what you're doing with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=246.3s	246.3	 And then everyone tells you that you're a monster
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 For doing something like that, and I know I've been guilty in the past of being a dog training snob
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=255.0s	255.0	 I only I guess in the last five years have realized that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=260.0s	260.0	 That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 You know that that other people can train other ways and it's okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=266.3s	266.3	 You know the focus is on humane training ethical training and really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=272.5s	272.5	 You know making a better quality of life for the dog and the person and so all these tiny little minute details about how you train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=280.3s	280.3	 To leave it or or anything like that. It's really not that big a deal in the bigger picture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=286.7s	286.7	 Which is putting this information out there creating a positive community for people to want to join
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=293.8s	293.8	 And not making it a scary place for new trainers and and new owners of dogs who want to learn about training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=300.0s	300.0	 To talk about their training without getting bashed. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=305.3s	305.3	 One other thing that I like about Zach George is he doesn't go around bashing other people I find that very very respectful and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=314.4s	314.4	 So the call to action is go to Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 Either on YouTube Facebook Instagram and just thank him for what he's done for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=326.1s	326.1	 exposing positive reinforcement to the entire world so people can find out about this type of training and also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=333.1s	333.1	 Go around looking for other positive reinforcement trainers that you like and say something nice about them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=339.1s	339.1	 Leave them a comment like one of their videos and I will do the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=343.4s	343.4	 I'm gonna go out and find specific trainers to tell them how much I appreciate their work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=349.2s	349.2	 And this is really going to build build us up rather than all this tearing down of other trainers. I think that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=358.5s	358.5	 Now's the time to start the building up process. I did actually write to him personally and every once in a while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=364.6s	364.6	 I've written a comment about him somewhere in a feed, but I never made this public display of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=372.6s	372.6	 Thankfulness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=374.5s	374.5	 To Zach George actually wrote to him yesterday saying that I was grateful for him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=380.5s	380.5	 And then he said he was gonna post like a little ad about my YouTube channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=385.5s	385.5	 I was like don't do that. That's fine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=387.0s	387.0	 But he did anyway, and so and I now have to thank him for that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=390.6s	390.6	 So he sent people to my material and I am very grateful for that. I suddenly got thousands more followers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=399.9s	399.9	 So, you know, it was unnecessary, but of course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=404.6s	404.6	 It's super cool and fun. Thank you so much for watching and I'm so grateful for all the support
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8qrhpadPrc&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=86&pp=iAQB&t=410.3s	410.3	 You all have given me. See you later
