https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Hello everyone and welcome to Kikopop's dog training tip of the day for today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=5.1s	5.1	 Somebody recently commented they would like a tip of the day on working with distractions. I suggest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=12.4s	12.4	 beginning in a room of no distraction where your dog is finding your reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=17.5s	17.5	 the most reinforcing thing to do, teach the concept of working around distractions and then start to add on them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=25.1s	25.1	 add on that in baby steps. If you try and go out somewhere and work on distractions,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=29.5s	29.5	 you might have the same problem that you would have if you were working with a dog with reactivity and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=34.9s	34.9	 something could go well and then something could go badly. So it's really unpredictable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=40.1s	40.1	 So it's better to build the strength of the behaviors of your dog listening to you and finding the behaviors you want them to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=47.2s	47.2	 reinforcing when there's nothing around. So what's happening is conditioning. The dog is really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=53.6s	53.6	 enjoying the reinforcement.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 So it's gonna make the behavior more likely to happen or if they're out and about and everything's really distracting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=61.2s	61.2	 like you're at a cafe and there's crumbs everywhere and you're asking them to lie down, but they want to eat the crumbs or something like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=67.9s	67.9	 It's you can imagine that the dog is not gonna be thinking that laying down with you is the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=74.6s	74.6	 reinforcing thing to do. So you build on it. Are you ready? So Bliss
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=79.2s	79.2	 is my ten month old Borda Polly mix.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=82.0s	82.0	 I got him from a family that lived out on a ranch and he's a mix of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 according to Embark, he's a mix of Borda Polly, 30% cattle dog and then they say he's got some German Shepherd and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=96.4s	96.4	 Rotweiler perhaps in his mix, but you never know. Okay, so let's get started.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=103.9s	103.9	 Because he's already been settled, I'm gonna ask him to get up and then lay down again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=112.5s	112.5	 Now I'm gonna ask him to down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=117.7s	117.7	 So what you first want before you add distractions is at least five seconds of a behavior if it's a maintained behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=127.0s	127.0	 Where the dog stays in position, you can mark and reinforce the dog. That way you can start adding distractions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=133.3s	133.3	 Now I already have tutorials on adding distractions and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 teaching stay behaviors with different types of distractions like toys and treats, but this is just a fun little taster video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=144.6s	144.6	 So the very very basics of adding a distraction is you choose an environment where the dog can learn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 You present the distraction in a as low level as possible that you know the dog's not gonna get up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=158.6s	158.6	 Like that and you mark. So you either say yes or good or whatever your verbal marker is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=164.7s	164.7	 That means they're gonna get a treat or you clip. So I'm holding the treat out. I mark and then I reinforce him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 So this is the distraction for the moment, but most dogs get up if you put a treat down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=176.8s	176.8	 So if I put it down here, he probably would get up thinking I was giving it to him like I am there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=182.2s	182.2	 But this is a new picture and basically what you're doing is you make it this step so small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=187.7s	187.7	 that you can put a treat down on the ground if you do this enough and the dog is not going to get up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=194.0s	194.0	 So you're marking them for wanting to stay in the down position when distractions happen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=200.3s	200.3	 So not only are they learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=202.9s	202.9	 using a parent's conditioning where they're learning, oh I stay in this position I get food, but they're also learning,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=208.9s	208.9	 oh when there's food on the ground, I love laying in the down position, which is classical conditioning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=215.4s	215.4	 So the dog is having that calm happy response to seeing something in the environment fall rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=223.0s	223.0	 feeling frustrated about it. So if he was under a table and a piece of food fell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=229.6s	229.6	 in front of him like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=231.6s	231.6	 he's gonna stay there and know that it's more reinforcing to stay where he is. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=240.0s	240.0	 It's basically brainwashing, isn't it? You want to nod?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=244.6s	244.6	 You're gonna nod? Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=247.1s	247.1	 Okay, so now I'm gonna free him, free! And then I could even say get it with this type of game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=254.9s	254.9	 And then the next step because first you're clicking as the distraction happens and you can increase
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=262.2s	262.2	 how difficult the distraction is as you're clicking as the distraction happens, but you can also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=269.3s	269.3	 make the same distraction happen and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=272.8s	272.8	 then add
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=274.4s	274.4	 acceleration and delay when you mark. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=278.8s	278.8	 at first I was doing this and it might have been too much for him at first, but you can see it's really easy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=283.7s	283.7	 And then I was doing this so I can delay the clicking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=290.6s	290.6	 and now I can delay the dropping the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=295.4s	295.4	 My unconscious knew that I should click as I dropped it with him because he's never learned this yet, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=304.5s	304.5	 let's just pretend that we worked on it a little bit and I'm just gonna drop the treats now because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=311.4s	311.4	 I'm adding the duration of the distraction and did you see he shifted a little?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=318.2s	318.2	 I think he was thinking about getting up. I clicked him or I reinforced him by feeding him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=325.4s	325.4	 for staying so he might have been thinking a little bit, but I'm gonna say yes, you still are in the down position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=330.4s	330.4	 so you're getting it and then I'm gonna make it easier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=333.0s	333.0	 So I'm gonna click every time I drop the treat at first, which is what he's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=337.4s	337.4	 what if I crawl all the way there and play stretchy games?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=342.6s	342.6	 I'm just gonna lower him back with the treat, ask him to down and then make it easier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=352.9s	352.9	 Another thing you can do is add
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=355.6s	355.6	 criteria as to what you want that behavior to look like. So at first, as the distraction happens,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=362.9s	362.9	 he's looking at it. If that's not what you wanted and you wanted your dog to look at you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=367.6s	367.6	 you could then make the distraction a little bit easier and repeat it and then see if your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=371.7s	371.7	 dog might offer looking at you or you can ask for the attention. So I'm going to do this and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=378.8s	378.8	 I'm going to make my attention noise or say his name. If you have a border collie, they might just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=384.8s	384.8	 enjoy watching your hand do that. Good boy. When you first start working on a distraction,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=392.0s	392.0	 it's a good idea to be extremely repetitive and repeat the same movement exactly the same
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=399.1s	399.1	 and then build on it so that the dog is also habituating to it and finding it extremely boring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=405.1s	405.1	 and then when the dog is having success, then you want to start adding variability to the behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=411.3s	411.3	 so your dog is really going to understand the concept of it rather than it happening in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=416.6s	416.6	 very small controlled picture and then in other situations they're going to think their brain is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=423.3s	423.3	 going to think unconsciously, oh this is a different picture, it probably doesn't mean the same thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=428.4s	428.4	 or they might not even remember what they're supposed to do. So you're doing the same repetitive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=436.5s	436.5	 movement and you can build on it, for example like you're doing this and then you're dropping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=440.9s	440.9	 the treat and it's very repetitive and you build on it and then when they learn it then you start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=446.9s	446.9	 varying but if you vary too much while you're training the new behavior like this, hello Kiko,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=453.5s	453.5	 then what can happen is the dog can keep getting up so my theory, my tip is that if they get up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=461.5s	461.5	 two to three times in the training session for the same thing then it's too hard and you need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=468.1s	468.1	 to go back a step or think of a way to break up the information, break up the steps so the dog can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=474.4s	474.4	 get it easier. Now Kiko, my little chihuahua as you might have heard me say earlier is 17 and she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=481.5s	481.5	 is deaf and partially blind so she just gets to wander around and get treats and she's a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=488.2s	488.2	 good distraction for a bliss, hey Pupsy. Thank you so much for watching, if you'd like to support my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=494.2s	494.2	 work don't forget to like, comment and subscribe to my channel. You can also become a supporting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=501.3s	501.3	 member of channel Kikopup by clicking that join button that you see under my videos or on my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=508.8s	508.8	 YouTube channel and that gains you access to one members video a month that you can find in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CSSN1Aph5wU&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=93&pp=iAQB&t=515.1s	515.1	 community section of my YouTube channel. See you later!
