https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Come on, jump up! Hello everyone and welcome to Kikopup's dog training tip of the day for today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=6.6s	6.6	 If you're working on position changes and you want to create some distance from your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=11.6s	11.6	 but when you ask them to stand up they move forward, one thing you can do is use a bed or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=17.4s	17.4	 a couch to initially train this behavior. You can also use the edge of a carpet when there's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=23.6s	23.6	 hardwood floors so there's really that tactile and visual difference about where the dog is supposed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=29.7s	29.7	 to be so you're going to be reinforcing the dog using a platform, a couch or a different surface
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=36.1s	36.1	 that's going to help them. I suggest using a non-slip surface so have the dog on the carpet not the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=42.8s	42.8	 slippery floor. If you had a border collie that likes cool wet grass have them on the cool wet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=48.6s	48.6	 grass instead of the dirt or the tarmac as the difference and then if you had a sun-loving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=56.0s	56.0	 little chihuahua that doesn't like grass you could have the dog on the cement before the park
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=62.7s	62.7	 the park's green grass so you're choosing something they find preferable to stay on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=67.7s	67.7	 Okay hello, I'm sorry I made you wait. So I have these treats here enough to do a little mini
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=74.4s	74.4	 training session in my hand and what I'm going to do is I'm going to lower him into the standing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=80.5s	80.5	 position and mark. Good so he's kind of sitting so I'm going to make sure that he's standing next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=86.9s	86.9	 time down and I want to make sure his back legs aren't slipping out from under him because he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=95.8s	95.8	 got very short back legs. Get it! So I'm just cueing him to get the treat and I'm going to wait for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=102.3s	102.3	 him to stand up properly so I'm going to throw the treat away. It could be that he's in this little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=107.7s	107.7	 groove here that he's not standing up very nicely. There we go, good that's a nice stand isn't it? So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 I call the standing behavior up so I'm going to say down good and because I've highly reinforced
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=122.2s	122.2	 and trained down I'm not going to give any treats for it for the moment and I've got a little treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 here a good job in between my fingers like that in between my first and second finger and I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=135.1s	135.1	 to do the hand signal which I want for stand which is like that and say get it good good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=144.7s	144.7	 and then for down my hand signal is like that good job and I'm going to give treats variably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=153.4s	153.4	 in the different positions if you only give one treat in a down one treat in the stand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=157.8s	157.8	 after you give the treat in the stand the dog's going to anticipate what's coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=161.3s	161.3	 next and they most likely will lay down again so once I've got him in the stand I'm going to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=165.6s	165.6	 sure to reinforce him with multiple treats so I'm going to put the treat between my fingers again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 and lure him up like that that looks really pretty he didn't move his feet and then lure him back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=177.3s	177.3	 into the down position awesome and now I'm going to do it without any treat between my finger and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=183.2s	183.2	 up good and he's sat he's kind of sat on his back legs so I'm going to give him the treat because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=192.1s	192.1	 he tried but you can see he struck he struggles a little bit with his back feet that aren't very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=198.2s	198.2	 well made poor little man so I'm going to get him back in the down and another thing I can do is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 rearrange him so he'll be more likely to stand up nicely by luring the treat forward like that I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=211.1s	211.1	 also make sure to tuck his little leg in if your dog is comfortable with with being touched because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 if they have really floppy back legs that's really going to help them stand up did you see that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 where he had kind of kicked his left leg out to the side by putting it where it should go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=227.5s	227.5	 it helped him to stand up like that good job good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=231.5s	231.5	 good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=234.0s	234.0	 down good up awesome good boy and he said I'll take a few steps while I stand up so if you don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=242.3s	242.3	 your dog to take steps you should sit right in front of them he took steps to the he kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=247.8s	247.8	 turned to face me you want to stand right in front of them like this or have the treats in a bowl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=253.8s	253.8	 that you then deliver to the dog so that they're orienting perfectly forward that's another reason
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=258.7s	258.7	 why he's flipped his hip like that is because I'm sitting over here um get it good job so basically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=265.6s	265.6	 I'm turning the cue of holding a treat like this and asking him to get it out here into a hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=272.5s	272.5	 signal with a treat here that he then gets it and then no no treat between my finger so that he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=278.7s	278.7	 stands up and then when he's reliably standing up like this I'm then going to say up before I do the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=284.9s	284.9	 hand signal because I want the verbal cue to function as a cue for him as well as the hand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=291.3s	291.3	 signal but without having to do the hand signal and then I'm going to add distance so I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 to get further and further away from him doing the hand signal and you can see because if he's eating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 the treat out of the out of the finger and then no treat if the hand moves away he might think oh I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=308.2s	308.2	 need to be near the hand so if the dog wasn't on a different surface they just kind of walk towards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=314.4s	314.4	 your hand some dogs as you're training this if you're not very fast with your marker before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=320.0s	320.0	 they take a step forward and you can easily build distance away from the dog while asking for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=325.5s	325.5	 positions hey little man now I've run out of his treats and a lot of people ask me how do you train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=333.3s	333.3	 little dogs without making them fat and the answer is you make sure to not overfeed them treats or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=340.8s	340.8	 food you want to make sure you're keeping track of the calories they take in so I measure out how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=346.9s	346.9	 many treats he gets and then I stay true to that so maybe if I was doing a training session where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=353.3s	353.3	 he's super super enthusiastic I might use more treats and then just make sure to feed less dinner
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=359.3s	359.3	 hey little man he really loves massage he's just the sweetest little boy he could easily be like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=365.1s	365.1	 therapy dog I'm thinking of doing it but I'm so busy but he would be perfect I've already you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=372.8s	372.8	 used him to make people make people and other dogs feel better so so he does his own little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=378.8s	378.8	 therapy work thank you so much for watching if you'd like to support my work don't forget to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=383.8s	383.8	 like this video and leave me a comment as it's highly reinforcing for me you can also subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cv4seQbdVfY&list=UU-qnqaajTk6bfs3UZuue6IQ&index=96&pp=iAQB&t=390.0s	390.0	 so that you'll see the next upcoming KikoPup dog training tips of the day see you later
