https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 What do you even do when you're trying to train a brand new puppy all day long?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=7.0s	7.0	 That's what we hope to explore today. I gotta tell you, we're getting extremely close in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=11.4s	11.4	 series to completely upending our life in a way that we have never done. Zach, you're getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=17.0s	17.0	 ahead of yourself. That's true. And you guys know we are super choosy about our sponsors. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=22.0s	22.0	 we have like six sponsors that we work with regularly. And we definitely turn down the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=26.7s	26.7	 vast majority of inquiries of people who want to advertise on our channel. Yeah, I don't know if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 you guys have noticed, but we've been working with a lot of the same companies for years and years.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=35.9s	35.9	 Our game plan has really been to stick with those products that really better your life,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=41.7s	41.7	 something that is really different, outliers, the good stuff. Yeah, dogs need stuff and it's good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=46.9s	46.9	 to get the good stuff. Which is why we really appreciate NumNum. They actually help people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 everywhere feed their dogs better than ever before. I don't like to cook. I'm just saying.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=57.8s	57.8	 NumNum is basically for people who want to give their dog the freshest possible diet. But you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=63.0s	63.0	 I mean, why not just make it yourself? If you're going to cook a diet for your dog regularly and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 you want to keep them healthy, you have to be very knowledgeable about dog nutrition first. And so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=72.4s	72.4	 that's where NumNum comes in. They make individual portions that are optimized for your dog, their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=76.9s	76.9	 weight, their breed, etc. By actual veterinary nutritionists. So they ship it to your house,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 it arrives frozen too. And I think the cost of it's extremely reasonable. And I think if it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 within your budget that you owe it to at least try this food, see if it's right for you and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=90.0s	90.0	 and how they respond to it. They're making it really easy to try it by giving you half off of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=93.8s	93.8	 a two week trial. Go to my special link, trinom.com slash Zach. I'll have all the details below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 Her separation anxiety is strong, we'll say. It's totally normal and common actually for dogs to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=107.8s	107.8	 feel anxious when they're in their crate or in an enclosed area away from us. I want to show you how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=112.8s	112.8	 I deal with this in real time. I've whipped out my iPhone to try and capture this so you can see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 it happens in the moment because you can't really set up moments of separation anxiety like you can.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=123.3s	123.3	 Here's how you teach your dog to sit for example. So I have a big area here for her to be in, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 So she doesn't feel too confined. So we've got lots of stuff in here to try and keep her occupied.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=132.9s	132.9	 She's starting to get anxious here. Right now I want to teach her that that barking makes me go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 away while I'm in the house. And so one of the things I'm doing here is as she's vocalizing like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=143.9s	143.9	 that, I'm going to walk farther away. In other words, the barking makes me go away. And it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=150.8s	150.8	 like when I walk away from her, she starts to get quiet as if to say, will this work? Will this keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=155.8s	155.8	 you close? And I kind of want to be like, yeah, okay, if you relax, I'll stay closer here, kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=159.5s	159.5	 of help you ease through this. Yes, quiet. We're just teaching her how to be quiet. I can occasionally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=165.8s	165.8	 get Veronica to kind of settle on requests. By the way, I should say we've had her about two and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=170.6s	170.6	 a half weeks at this point, maybe three weeks. Yes, nice settle. So we're starting to see some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=176.3s	176.3	 examples of this. I mean, little moments like this are huge victories and ones that you want to at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=182.3s	182.3	 least attempt to reinforce. Sometimes I'll give them a treat or something like that. Here, I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=186.5s	186.5	 trying to give her like a food reward, but she doesn't even take it, which is like, okay, well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=190.7s	190.7	 that's not reinforcing to her. What can I do? Maybe she's just actually exhausted. Okay, she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=195.4s	195.4	 doesn't really want our food right now, but that's okay. She just had a really long walk,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=199.0s	199.0	 so we're hoping that she's going to take a nap by herself. Good girl. Relax. Everything's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=206.3s	206.3	 I'm also trying to communicate this calm voice to her, which in time she will correlate with being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=212.1s	212.1	 calm. I don't know if she's making that connection right now, but that's the purpose of using that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=216.2s	216.2	 tone of voice with her. Yeah, it's strange to watch that work. It's like we have this other species
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=221.0s	221.0	 that does not speak human yet, and we have to like use our body language and our volume and just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=226.4s	226.4	 let them know it's a calm time. It's done with the aim of teaching context in time and teaching them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=232.1s	232.1	 our culture, which they're so capable, and amazingly so, of learning. Veronica has a habit too of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=238.3s	238.3	 eventually wandering into her crate from the extended area. And see, that's the real prize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=243.8s	243.8	 we're looking for right there. We really want her being comfortable in the crate because it's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=247.3s	247.3	 more practical way to manage her when we can't supervise her. Stress level is moderate, it seems,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=253.9s	253.9	 not too severe. And so this is part of raising a puppy too, really showing them how to manage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 their stress when they have it. We just want to be careful not to have them go to such a high level
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=262.9s	262.9	 of stress because then things become difficult, which is why we're a little behind on getting her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=267.6s	267.6	 to be alone, but we're trying to be accommodating with her at the same time as we should with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=271.8s	271.8	 puppy. Real world stuff here, major breakthrough with Veronica. I'm here editing a TikTok right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=277.5s	277.5	 now and she is killing it. She's doing great. I'm just very pleased at her progress today. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=286.5s	286.5	 probably more progress today than at any point since we've had her. So I think she really needs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=292.4s	292.4	 to sleep in this area overnight. To this point, her anxiety has been too intense for us to justify
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=298.6s	298.6	 keeping her in there. So she's been sleeping with Bri, which is something we wanted to avoid,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=302.6s	302.6	 at the same time. Anxiety is a thing too, so we want to manage that and, you know, try and approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=308.0s	308.0	 it intelligently and take into account all the stress she's been under and show her how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=314.8s	314.8	 manage when she does feel those stressful feelings. Hopefully that's what we're trying to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=319.7s	319.7	 So our breakthrough continued and Veronica eventually relaxed enough to take a proper nap
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=324.6s	324.6	 in her crate, which is wonderful. It's so important when you have a victory like that, not to push them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=329.5s	329.5	 to the point of having another outburst or reaction. So ideally you'd like to let them out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=334.2s	334.2	 of that crate when? Before they freak out. Notice she was awake. She did so well. I want to let her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=340.7s	340.7	 out before she asks me to. Hang on. But I also want to make sure she remembers not to rush out of her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=346.6s	346.6	 crate when I open it. Nice. Right there. I can see it in her eyes that she's going to pause for a second.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=353.4s	353.4	 Zach. Yeah. Pop quiz. Okay. What's the first thing you do when you let your puppy out of the crate?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=361.0s	361.0	 Oh, you let them outside to go potty. Potty break! Good girl, Veronica. Go pee. Now that that's out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=367.2s	367.2	 the way, I'm going to take just like two minutes and practice training with Veronica. That is all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=371.6s	371.6	 it is. I mean, people get overwhelmed by how much there is to teach a dog, but like 30 seconds here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=375.9s	375.9	 two minutes there, that's where dogs are trained. A trick that you taught me that I find really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 helpful is to focus on the period of time I want to train. I was too focused on the task. And so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=385.3s	385.3	 instead to just say, I'm going to take two minutes and work with my dog. And whatever you get is what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=389.1s	389.1	 you get. Yeah. I have found that to be such a helpful tip. I am full of helpful tips like that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=394.0s	394.0	 I'm just saying. Now you're watching Bree and Veronica work on Lie Down for a longer period
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=398.2s	398.2	 of time here. And I noticed you're using the clicker, Bree. Yep. And you'll remember we talked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=402.6s	402.6	 about that in a past episode. The click means good dog. I like that. Here's a treat. But the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=406.3s	406.3	 broader point to show you is some of the small spontaneous moments we take for training throughout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=410.9s	410.9	 the day so that you can get a really good sense of what raising and training a puppy actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=416.1s	416.1	 looks like on a day to day basis. There is a lot more to the daily process of raising a puppy than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=420.9s	420.9	 just training though. I have some errands to run and I'm going to bring Veronica along. I brought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=425.3s	425.3	 Veronica with me to Lowe's because I've been bringing her with me pretty much everywhere for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=429.2s	429.2	 a couple of reasons. Socialization and she still has separation anxiety that we're working on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=434.4s	434.4	 She's getting much better, but sometimes it's easier to bring her when I am not ready to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=439.4s	439.4	 on training at that time. And this is one of those times. So she's with me running errands.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=443.8s	443.8	 She's awake now and we're just sitting here in the parking lot. The window's cracked,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=449.9s	449.9	 letting her take in the noises. What do you think? Are you ready to go to Lowe's? Your very first time?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=456.2s	456.2	 So we're only going to go barely in the front door because I just have to pick up an order.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=459.4s	459.4	 It's actually so busy that I think I'm going to carry her. Yikes, so busy. There it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=466.8s	466.8	 You did it. You got your hose. All right. That's about all there is to that. It seems like we did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=471.8s	471.8	 basically nothing, right? We went inside Lowe's and then we came back out. You cannot ride here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=476.2s	476.2	 while I drive, you know? But that is a really good, exciting experience for her. It doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=480.3s	480.3	 have to be like a huge ordeal to socialize your dog. You can just do quick little things that take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=487.1s	487.1	 two minutes like that. Great positive experience. Those minutes really add up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=491.4s	491.4	 You're going to have to go find somewhere safe to sit. That is not the place. Continuing my theme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=498.4s	498.4	 of showing you some of the small socialization opportunities that I'm finding today. Oh my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=503.1s	503.1	 goodness, you did it. I'm proud of you. Here's one from our potty break. Not even scared. Not even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=508.5s	508.5	 scared. And here's another new thing she can come here outside. Good job. I think you've been doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=513.9s	513.9	 a great job with socialization with her so far. Thank you. But you know, there's something puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=518.6s	518.6	 do that I feel like we're forgetting about. What's that? I don't know. It's right on the tip of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=524.1s	524.1	 toe. Ouch. Ow. That was a serious bite of my shoe. I'm sure some of you are very familiar with very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=531.1s	531.1	 intense puppy biting like this. You know, where your normally very sweet puppy just starts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=536.5s	536.5	 lunging and biting at every piece of matter in existence. Geez, what is the deal? Why are you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=542.2s	542.2	 like this right now? Oh my gosh. You're not usually like this. But in all seriousness,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=547.9s	547.9	 this really does frustrate a lot of people. Unfortunately, I think this drives a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=552.3s	552.3	 people to use disciplinary methods that might be counterproductive. Yeah. And I've actually noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=556.8s	556.8	 a lot of people asking you about whether this means that their puppy is actually like aggressive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=562.0s	562.0	 or evil or maybe needs to be rehomed or might not be the right dog for them. And so I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=567.0s	567.0	 understanding what is normal puppy behavior is pretty important. Of course. Is this normal though?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=572.4s	572.4	 Because this is very intense. Oh, Veronica. Veronica. What are you doing? Stop. Stop.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=583.0s	583.0	 She ripped three holes in my pants. Okay. Three. Keep in mind that in the vast, vast majority of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=588.1s	588.1	 situations, your puppy isn't actually trying to cause you harm. They just have energy and teeth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=593.2s	593.2	 and they don't know how to use those two things together in a way that we approve of. Even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=597.7s	597.7	 it's natural, we still need to meet their demands for an energy release for a mental release and so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=604.6s	604.6	 on. Which is why I'm hoping Bree knows that she should probably be taking Veronica in the backyard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=609.7s	609.7	 to give her some exercise right now. Bree, let's go outside. What do you think? Good job. And just by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=615.7s	615.7	 virtue of being out in the world, you know, new and unexpected things are going to happen and that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=620.6s	620.6	 we should embrace those things and take advantage of those moments to see what type of training we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=625.3s	625.3	 can get in order to make sure that our dog is familiar with those things. Veronica was taking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=631.5s	631.5	 almost everything in stride today, but this tractor is really throwing her off. Good. Come on. Oh my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=638.3s	638.3	 goodness. But look at that though. The second the tractor passes, you're able to get her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=644.2s	644.2	 on you, which is pretty good because with some dogs, they might fixate on that as long as it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=648.4s	648.4	 in sight at first. Don't give your dog a leash pop when they start barking at something that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=652.6s	652.6	 they haven't seen. Just understand that throws them off. Allow them to observe it at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=657.4s	657.4	 that they feel comfortable with. Don't force it upon them and be patient and go out of your way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=661.4s	661.4	 to give them new novel experiences like that. Yes. Go pee. Good girl. Nice. I am sure she's going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=667.5s	667.5	 perfectly behaved now when we go inside. Excuse me. Yeah. Well, it looks like the second that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=671.8s	671.8	 Veronica comes back in though, she wastes no time at all finding something to get into.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=677.8s	677.8	 I left the paper towels out and there's a puppy. Oh my goodness. Now, ideally, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=682.8s	682.8	 we manage our environment so that our dog can't get into things like paper towels or shoes or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=687.0s	687.0	 whatever the case may be. Management prevents those things most of the time. This is what I get for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=692.1s	692.1	 turning my back for two seconds. But I love what you're doing here, Bree, because you're not just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=696.9s	696.9	 ripping those paper towels away. I mean, they're no immediate danger to her. And instead you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=701.9s	701.9	 trying to teach her to reason through the process and leave them alone voluntarily without any type
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=706.5s	706.5	 of force because you want her to understand the process. Yes, that is what I'm doing. But that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=711.1s	711.1	 good example of teaching a dog how to think from the inside outward. And this is an extension of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=715.9s	715.9	 the leave it training exercise. Yes, leave that alone. Yay. Good girl. Come on. So ideally,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=723.3s	723.3	 redirecting her attention onto you or something else to get her attention off the problematic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=727.3s	727.3	 item is more ideal than simply taking it away where possible. Sometimes you just need to either
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=732.0s	732.0	 for their safety or you're just doing something else and don't have the time to teach in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=735.2s	735.2	 moment. Thanks for leaving that alone. I'll try to pick up better next time. inertia is like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=740.7s	740.7	 five star mentor at this point. I mean, she can train dogs better than I can, which isn't saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=745.3s	745.3	 much. But she is so good with Veronica and their relationship just blossoms and blossoms more like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=751.4s	751.4	 it's incredible. I've never seen anything like it. It is very strange, but very great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=756.3s	756.3	 Great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=760.5s	760.5	 Oh, I got legs. There she goes. I'm not gonna help you. She's got hops. The two dogs have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=767.6s	767.6	 continued to play and this is a great example of mirroring behavior, how they're both on their backs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=772.5s	772.5	 and both peacefully enjoying one another. It's a really great sign typically when dogs do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=778.0s	778.0	 Hey inertia. Are you being sweet? She is? Okay, up close. It's intense. But Veronica seems fine.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=786.3s	786.3	 Take a break. Inertia will like chew on Veronica's throat like that for a minute. But then usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=798.2s	798.2	 after she does this for a sec, inertia will lay down too. It's so interesting to watch her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=805.4s	805.4	 get kind of rough and then be like, okay, be gentle. Even when inertia puts weight on her,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=811.3s	811.3	 she'll promptly take her weight off of Veronica so she's not like pinning her down. And then she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=817.0s	817.0	 invites Veronica to do the same, well to a degree, or she's entrapping her one or the other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=829.4s	829.4	 Mutual shake-offs too. You guys buddies? Okay, our dogs have become pretzels.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=836.6s	836.6	 Who needs a chew toy when you have a border collie?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=841.8s	841.8	 She was just biting her tongue. That's hilarious. In Veronica's relationship with my cat, Angela
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=848.1s	848.1	 is continuing to progress too. Fortunately, Angela's super tolerant of puppies. Yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=852.8s	852.8	 Angela's role has really been to toughen up the dogs that we bring in and let them know, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=857.4s	857.4	 don't mess with cats. Yep, she's good at that. You're welcome, cats. But the thing is with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=862.0s	862.0	 Veronica, she's a smaller size dog so far, there are very real concerns, especially with our lifestyle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=869.4s	869.4	 of predators. I've never had a dog this size before. All my dogs have been like 50 pounds and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=875.4s	875.4	 over so keeping my eye on the sky is very new to me. They're eagles. Juvenile. There are so many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=883.3s	883.3	 predator birds. But we have bald eagles left and right wherever we go it seems. Man, that's scary.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=888.7s	888.7	 Yeah, and whatever this is. What kind of bird is that? He like cruised in so slowly and casually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=897.2s	897.2	 just watching her and then he landed in that tree. Get out of here bird. I like birds but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=903.7s	903.7	 I'm starting to be scared of them. They want to eat my dog. It's not a squirrel. She really looks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=910.2s	910.2	 like a squirrel. And it's not just birds we have to worry about. Bree, there's an alligator over there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=918.4s	918.4	 There's an alligator in the water right there. Look at that. There's danger everywhere. What do you do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=925.2s	925.2	 There's an alligator. It's not like you want to train around an alligator too much. There's not a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=928.7s	928.7	 lot of room for error. What I do in those cases is get out of Dodge. Anyway, let's see how Veronica's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=934.6s	934.6	 fetch is coming along. Yeah. Yeah. What a good little fetch. Good game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=948.2s	948.2	 Fetch. Has she ever done this good? Yes. Fetch is such a major part of my training strategy for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=953.0s	953.0	 dogs like Veronica or energetic dogs. Oh, you like fetch? I had no idea. I like fetch so much that my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=959.7s	959.7	 first TV show was called Super Fetch. I mean, the thing about fetch is it's fun for both parties
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=964.9s	964.9	 involved. It drastically improves communication between a person and a dog and it gives dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=971.4s	971.4	 a really efficient mental and physical outlet. So like for people who are trying everything,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=977.3s	977.3	 they're probably not prioritizing teaching a fluid game of fetch. I mean, truly, I would not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=982.9s	982.9	 know how to train a dog without involving fetch in my routine, at least for dogs like Veronica,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=987.6s	987.6	 because you can't bypass exercise. All right, we're going to take a break. All right, one more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=994.1s	994.1	 She's quick. I know, isn't she? Fastest frisbee dog on earth. Good. Maybe. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1001.8s	1001.8	 All right, all done. Veronica's teething phase really has only just begun because you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1007.1s	1007.1	 all these like tiny sharp teeth in her mouth. It's only just begun. Yeah. Oh my god. Look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1013.8s	1013.8	 her teeth. Canines are still baby teeth, but the front ones are grown up teeth. Yep, they're sharp.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1018.3s	1018.3	 She ripped three holes in my pants yesterday. Yeah, I can see that. She's really good. That was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1023.8s	1023.8	 really good reaction there. She's like still in play mode. So that's an interesting angle to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1029.4s	1029.4	 desensitize her. Yeah. I think this is a really good opportunity to get her comfortable with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1035.3s	1035.3	 tooth brushing too. The reason being is that she's so willing to kind of like bite at things. Why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1041.4s	1041.4	 not get her to start getting comfortable with the texture of the toothbrush on her teeth?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1045.9s	1045.9	 She does love to bite at things. Yeah. I put a little toothpaste on the end. So it's a fine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1051.4s	1051.4	 line between teaching her to bite the toothbrush like crazy. The goal here is just to get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1056.2s	1056.2	 comfortable with the texture being on her teeth, because I think that's what throws dogs off a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1060.2s	1060.2	 of super ticklish or uncomfortable or whatever. Tooth brushing is extra important for smaller
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1064.6s	1064.6	 dogs like Veronica too, because they have smaller mouths and they tend to have more dental problems.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1068.8s	1068.8	 So I'm going to make that not happen to me. So our goal here isn't really to do a thorough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1073.0s	1073.0	 tooth brushing session. It's just to get her comfortable with the whole idea of having her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1077.1s	1077.1	 teeth brushed. Teach her to engage with a little bit. Let her come to it rather than pushing it on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1081.7s	1081.7	 her. See that? That's fun. I'm just letting her get used to it. But look how while she's teething,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1089.5s	1089.5	 if you use a toothbrush in such a way, can you actually get them comfortable chomping on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1094.3s	1094.3	 toothbrush and becoming extra tolerant of the tickly brushes on their gum line and their teeth?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1100.3s	1100.3	 That's one of the issues you run into with it is if the dog's not used to having their toothbrush,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1105.1s	1105.1	 it's super ticklish and real sensitive and we're in a hurry. If I did this every day with her right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1110.1s	1110.1	 here, it's like she's doing the work for me in a way. I might go through toothbrushes a bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1114.1s	1114.1	 more quickly. So you can understand why you don't want to be in the position of, oh man,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1117.7s	1117.7	 I really need to brush my dog's teeth. So let me just make sure I get that done while also getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1122.1s	1122.1	 him comfortable with it at the same time. Preparation is where the game is won. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1126.4s	1126.4	 loving it. I mean, she's also teething right now, so it makes my job extra easy. She wants to like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1131.2s	1131.2	 bite on things and grab them. But I'd rather this than her be scared of it, you know? Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1137.8s	1137.8	 It's a reward. I love it. I know, right? Can we do it? Good girl. Okay, Alta, gonna stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1144.7s	1144.7	 before she gets bored. That's a great first introduction to the toothbrush, if you ask me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1149.9s	1149.9	 That was great. Good job. Nail trimming can also be pretty challenging as well. So apparently you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1156.0s	1156.0	 want to trim her nails for the first time without using treats. Why without treats? Yeah, I wanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1160.2s	1160.2	 to try something a little different with Veronica. I've never done it this way before, but she gets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1164.7s	1164.7	 so relaxed and comfy sometimes when she's sleeping with me. And I've been doing tons of testing over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1170.5s	1170.5	 the last couple of weeks that we've had her by like rubbing and playing with her feet and her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1174.9s	1174.9	 toenails while she sleeps. Yeah, smart. I feel like maybe I can keep her relaxed and trim her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1180.1s	1180.1	 nails. And I think using treats would actually wake her up and make her less relaxed. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1184.8s	1184.8	 risky though, because if Veronica doesn't react as calmly as you expect, she could develop a bad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1189.9s	1189.9	 association with the nail trim or with napping or even with Bree. Oh, and I see you're still easing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1195.5s	1195.5	 her into it, which is good. Yeah, I don't want to just blindside her with just a toenail chop right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1200.6s	1200.6	 away. So I'm not trying to be sneaky here. I'm just trying to be cool and casual, nonchalant. In
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1207.0s	1207.0	 this training session, I was honestly just hoping to clip like one or maybe two or three toenails.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1212.4s	1212.4	 I wasn't really trying to get like all of her nails done. Uh oh. Okay, she's still calm,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1218.4s	1218.4	 so that's good. She's doing so well that I think we might actually accomplish cutting all 20, 40?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1225.8s	1225.8	 How many toes do dogs have? I lost count after four. It feels like a lot. Okay, but look there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1230.5s	1230.5	 you can see she might want to opt out in this case. Yeah, I see that. So I'm definitely not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1237.0s	1237.0	 going to hold her back. If she wants to walk away, I'm going to let her walk away. And by doing that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1240.8s	1240.8	 it's really allowing your dog to come to terms with things and to adjust to it at their pace,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1245.2s	1245.2	 their schedule, you know, and that's going to pay off for us long term. And look at that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1248.9s	1248.9	 she comes back on her own and that's exactly what we want. So instead of making her get her nails
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1253.8s	1253.8	 trimmed, you're making her want to stay and get her nails trimmed. Big difference. And we only have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1259.6s	1259.6	 one toenail left. I think we're going to actually get her nails clipped today. This is a huge bonus.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1263.9s	1263.9	 We have one more, just this one. I'm done. That's the last one. That's the last one. That was so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1271.2s	1271.2	 good. Good girl. You did a great job. All right, let's go. I have to say, it really feels like the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1279.4s	1279.4	 tide is turning with Veronica. She learned so much today and I'm hoping we're about to have our first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1284.8s	1284.8	 successful entire night in her crate without getting Zach to help me. But I am feeling very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1289.9s	1289.9	 determined and very patient right now. So bring it on, Veronica. It seems like she might actually be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1294.5s	1294.5	 excited about something. What do you think? Oh, you want to go in there? You can see she doesn't mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1299.8s	1299.8	 going into her crate for food at all now. Okay, she's definitely hungry. So she'll get to eat a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1304.3s	1304.3	 good dinner in there and hopefully feel nice and full. I let Veronica eat in her crate and as soon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1308.6s	1308.6	 as she finished, she started to quietly cry. I'm not sure if this is what Zach would do, but my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1313.1s	1313.1	 strategy is to get over here before it escalates too much and she gets more upset. I like to sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1317.4s	1317.4	 with her for a little while just to let her know that I'm still here if she needs me, even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1321.4s	1321.4	 she has to stay in her crate. I'm not letting her out. She's right there. Now all I have to do is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1325.8s	1325.8	 sneak away. I think she's sleeping. I'm gonna sneak away. Oh. Or at least mostly. We'll see if she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1336.4s	1336.4	 minds me going upstairs. I'm not trying to trick her. I just want to leave when she's relaxed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1343.4s	1343.4	 Well done. I'd call that a victory. Yeah, and she actually even slept through the entire rest of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1348.1s	1348.1	 the night. I think it might be a major breakthrough, honestly. If you guys want to start feeding your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1352.0s	1352.0	 dog fresh dog food, you should give Nom Nom a shot. I'm going to have a link below, trinom.com slash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1356.7s	1356.7	 Zach. Subscribe, follow us on TikTok and Instagram, check out my books too, and we'll see you guys in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1361.6s	1361.6	 the next video. You have no idea what is coming. No, I don't. What is coming? Although I know that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viTxTq2WGIE&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=144&pp=iAQB&t=1368.1s	1368.1	 I'm clearly not in New Orleans right now. What? Yeah. Oh my god.
