https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 The single worst thing that has ever happened in my dog training career just happened.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 This is Reality Dog Training. Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 We're still inside that three-day window where it really takes a minute for them to open up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=20.1s	20.1	 I think we saw some of that yesterday when we were at the park with him and he was pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=24.2s	24.2	 tough to manage at times but still a smart guy. He's just a curious guy, that's all.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 Chop has no leash skills and we have a long way to go but eventually I'm hopeful that he'll heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=35.8s	35.8	 when I ask him to. I'm on record now as saying that, that means we have to teach it doesn't it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=42.2s	42.2	 Yep. Let me show you what I'm hoping to accomplish with my own dog, Inertia. So heel looks like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 Inertia, heel. Good girl. Heels where your dog stays on one side of you. They'll move with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 when you move. They'll turn with you when you turn and ideally they'll stop when you stop. In other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 words, you want them as glued to your side as reasonably possible. We do heel in short-term
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 situations like on a busy city street or for a good training exercise. It's not necessarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=69.0s	69.0	 reasonable to have your dog heel at all times whenever on leash as it requires a lot of focus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=73.6s	73.6	 and it's important for dogs to have experiences. Inertia is happy to do anything in exchange for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=78.5s	78.5	 this toilet paper toy and like you'll see with Chop, with Inertia having a really powerful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=82.9s	82.9	 currency to get them to look at you at first can really work well. Look at this. Good. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=88.6s	88.6	 For those of you that saw my series with Inertia, you'll know that I love bark toys and they were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=93.8s	93.8	 so powerful in teaching her so many things. BarkBox and SuperChewer are monthly subscription boxes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=99.1s	99.1	 You get the most original toys imaginable and really high quality treats and chews for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 dog every month. BarkBox is for dogs who like plushier toys like this and SuperChewer is for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=109.4s	109.4	 dogs who need tougher toys like this eyeball. Somersault. Stay. Okay. Good. Yes. BarkBox's theme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=118.1s	118.1	 is centered around Halloween pranks. Here we have a bag on fire. Clearly they're indicating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=122.7s	122.7	 like there's some poop in here that's on fire so when you open the door you stomp on it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=127.7s	127.7	 That's clear to you? There's something in there. Ah. No. What? Are you kidding me? Seriously,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=138.1s	138.1	 I cannot recommend these enough guys. Go to barkbox.com slash dog training or superchewer.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=142.6s	142.6	 slash dog training. Get a free extra box when you sign up for a multi-month subscription.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=147.4s	147.4	 So we saw recently how poor Chops Manners were in public. So it's very clear I have to teach him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=154.2s	154.2	 good leash skills. So we're going to start really basic here in my neighborhood. The thing is there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=160.9s	160.9	 are definitely black bears and brown bears in great abundance in these woods right here. We've seen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=168.4s	168.4	 them. We've got them on camera at our house. So we don't usually go this unprotected out here but I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=172.9s	172.9	 need to train a dog how to pay attention in public. We do have bear spray so I mean we are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=178.3s	178.3	 prepared. I am not because the most recent bear video of many that was shared with me by our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=186.0s	186.0	 neighbor right there of the street that we're about to train on was a mom bear with two cubs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=192.6s	192.6	 and no thank you that is not the kind of bear that I just I do not want to encounter a mom bear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=197.6s	197.6	 That's the scariest kind of bear. In case you don't know what bear spray is it's concentrated
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 pepper spray just like human pepper spray. It's a non-deadly way to get rid of bears. I have a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=206.8s	206.8	 hypothesis about Chop and I think he might be an Anatolian shepherd mix and if he is then he will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=212.9s	212.9	 maybe genetically be predisposed to help me not get eaten by a bear today and that would be great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=218.3s	218.3	 So I really hope that's true. We would probably get a lot of subscribers. My general goal here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=223.4s	223.4	 is to work in a small area and see if I can gain traction by getting him familiar with a small area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=229.8s	229.8	 See one of the problems with trying to train your dog when you're on a normal walk especially with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=233.7s	233.7	 a dog who can pull like he does is that you're trying to get somewhere. It's just not realistic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=238.3s	238.3	 to teach them to slow down in that particular context because when you're constantly encountering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 new ground and new smells that can be overwhelming to a lot of dogs. So if my hypothesis is correct
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 as we walk down this patch here he's going to be pulling and very distracted by all the plant life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=255.3s	255.3	 and everything else around here and then by the end of this training lesson I'm hoping that I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=261.0s	261.0	 have him walking nicely and if things are going really well I hope that I can do some heel training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=266.4s	266.4	 out here in this environment but I don't know if we're going to get there. Let's see how bad it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=271.3s	271.3	 All right so I'm just going to walk so you can see how he's pulling here. I said here getting no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=281.5s	281.5	 response from him. See here is something that means give me your attention I'm also looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=286.6s	286.6	 out for bears. All right good man let's go. So we're going to walk back here. Now this is interesting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=293.0s	293.0	 Do you see how immediately on the walk back he's slowing down? He's like we've already been here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=299.7s	299.7	 It's not perfect but you saw an immediate difference. Here let's try. So he's like all right I guess
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=306.0s	306.0	 we're going back now. Oh yeah I remember that smell that's interesting. There's a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 toxic plant life to dogs here so I want to be very careful about that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=321.8s	321.8	 Not doing any treats yet because I'm really more focused on just letting him walk here and explore.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=326.1s	326.1	 I don't really want to distract him with treats. I want him to have a genuine experience with his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=330.2s	330.2	 environment too. So I'm not asking him to do anything as much as I am just seeing what he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=337.4s	337.4	 does on his own. Good man. I'll say good to let him know you know I like that whereas I'll say yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=344.3s	344.3	 to mark a behavior and follow that up with a reward. So they're similar but a little bit different.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=350.7s	350.7	 And I mean already better than he was just a moment ago. You see what I mean? This really underscores
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=357.8s	357.8	 how dogs once they satisfy their curiosities they tend to be relatively good. It's a spectrum of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=365.6s	365.6	 course not every dog is this compliant. I love how he's looking up at me. I haven't marked those yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=371.0s	371.0	 because I'm still really just trying to prime him for this lesson rather than to train him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=375.2s	375.2	 But in a moment I'm going to start marking these behaviors once I feel he's really adapting. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=379.4s	379.4	 think maybe one more lap. Now of course in the long run you'll want to be able to walk virtually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=383.7s	383.7	 anywhere with your dog but while they're learning we need to break things down into smaller steps.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=389.8s	389.8	 If he looks up at me this time I'll mark it. In fact that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=394.6s	394.6	 wait for him to naturally look up at me and then I'll mark. Come on let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=400.7s	400.7	 Yes there we go that was the glance I was waiting for. Good boy. His loose leash walking is looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=408.4s	408.4	 really good right now. That was my expectation so we're on schedule but he's not completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=414.5s	414.5	 focused on me. He's not staying by my side. I would like him to at least know what a heel is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=419.8s	419.8	 even though we don't expect him to heal 100% of the time when on leash. But heel is a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=425.4s	425.4	 communication building exercise. Hey you ready to heel? Come here. First thing I want to do is make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=430.7s	430.7	 sure that I can get him right in front of me and I can get his attention unlike that. Come here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=436.2s	436.2	 sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=440.4s	440.4	 The way he's shaking his head a little here could be a sign of a bit of stress. So I want to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=444.6s	444.6	 note of things like that and do my best to not frustrate him too much here. I really really want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=449.4s	449.4	 to keep him optimistic about training. In our living room he would do great with this. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=454.0s	454.0	 to take a step back. I'm going to show him a treat. We're going to lure. Sit. Good man. Yes. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=459.1s	459.1	 to give him a reminder. I'm trying to get him to follow my hand as a visual signal. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=463.4s	463.4	 Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=467.2s	467.2	 Yes. So now I have him looking up at me in the heel position here. I'm having him heel on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=473.2s	473.2	 right today. I find a right heel is often more practical and natural for me. But keep in mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=478.3s	478.3	 you can teach your dog how to heel on either side of you like I've done with my own dog Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=482.1s	482.1	 Here. Yes. Did that one intentionally with the car coming. I wanted to see if I had him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=491.2s	491.2	 attention. Here. Chop. Yes. I'm periodically rewarding for his general attention when I ask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=501.9s	501.9	 for it. And I'm also rewarding him as he stays near me while we're moving. Yes. I love how he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=510.1s	510.1	 stopping when I'm stopping. We're really tuned into each other right now. Here. Yes. Bring my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=516.2s	516.2	 hands behind my back. So now I'm not saying here right. I can go here. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=524.7s	524.7	 I want to be able to have my hands on my hips and say here. Yes. Or even here. Yes. That's how I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=533.6s	533.6	 verifying that he's really paying attention to my head. We communicate with each other really well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=538.2s	538.2	 people and dogs through our eyes. Chop. Yes. So I use his name. I'll use here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=548.7s	548.7	 He needs to know both of them. Yes. Rewarding the automatic look for sure because that's what you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=553.8s	553.8	 want them doing. Really also want to reward back here. Can you see that like over here before he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=559.0s	559.0	 gets ahead in other words I don't want him to say yeah good boy and reward over there. Let him know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=562.5s	562.5	 that's where the rewards come from with heel training. I'm going to try and get in more steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=567.2s	567.2	 now. Yes. Here. I cover teaching lessons like this and everything else you can think of in both of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=582.2s	582.2	 my books. I'll have links to them below. Yes. Wait till I have a reliable look at me here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=591.4s	591.4	 So I'm getting a successful response from him sometimes but sometimes I'm not going to stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=597.2s	597.2	 because he didn't respond as he correct himself and look up as if to say what I do. Chop is really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=604.1s	604.1	 in and out here. He's not exactly inspired to pay attention to me when there's so much to look around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=610.3s	610.3	 at. So I'm going to see if I can brainstorm some different ways to get him really into this training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=615.0s	615.0	 session because I've noticed that sometimes when a dog isn't that interested in me there's probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=619.8s	619.8	 something that I can do better. Maybe if I pick up the pace that might get him a little bit more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=624.3s	624.3	 excited about me. Let's see. Chop here. Here. Yes. Much more confident trot there like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=645.9s	645.9	 Chop here. So his heels looking good but this other dog thing is a bit of a problem.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=652.7s	652.7	 Yeah dog just quickly ran by here with his person and you can see Chop immediately became less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=658.6s	658.6	 responsive so that's still another thing we have to work on. I have to get him in the presence of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=662.7s	662.7	 dogs in a distance moving forward. Oh boy. Okay he definitely still appears to be excited at the site
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=672.2s	672.2	 or detection of other dogs. He's next to impossible to communicate with when he sees a dog most of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=679.0s	679.0	 time. And in this early stage that has been one of our greatest challenges so far. Now that the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=684.4s	684.4	 dog has cleared out I want Chop to still get some exposure but at a great distance here. So this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=689.7s	689.7	 a way to kind of let him satisfy that curiosity. You can see him sniffing where the dog walked. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=694.9s	694.9	 mean he gathers a lot of information this way. We've got a lot of work to do on teaching him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=699.7s	699.7	 how to be more civilized when he sees dogs in public. I still think that there's got to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=705.0s	705.0	 better way to get Chop even more interested in this training session. At any given time dogs find
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=710.5s	710.5	 different things reinforcing and those things can change based on circumstance and context.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 Let me try and switch up his currency. Look at that. Yes. Good man. And so instead of the food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=727.7s	727.7	 this time I'm using a toss of the ball as a reward. It can be a little clunky but it can be well worth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=733.7s	733.7	 it. This is interesting. Here. Yes. So I'm getting the focus here is getting his eyes on me. Let me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=741.8s	741.8	 see if I can get his attention for just a second at a time and reward him with the ball. Then I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=746.6s	746.6	 try to get a few steps of a proper heel in exchange for a toss of the ball. Come on. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=755.6s	755.6	 So I got like three or four steps right there. That was awesome. We're going to bring him back here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=760.9s	760.9	 Look at how I'm able to steer him so well. Often when we think of luring a dog we think of luring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=767.0s	767.0	 with a treat but you can also use all kinds of things that your dog loves in order to lure them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=771.3s	771.3	 For his heel training in general my goal is going to have him to look up towards my face while we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=776.4s	776.4	 walking. Luring with the ball can help me get him into position and just like with treats I can focus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=781.5s	781.5	 on shifting his attention from the ball onto my actual eyes over time. Oh now he remembers it. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=789.3s	789.3	 So you can see an immediate difference in his energy. Yes. Good. Come on. Let's go. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=797.8s	797.8	 to let him chomp on that ball for a second since he's doing so well. So you might notice sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=802.2s	802.2	 when I say here I'll say yes afterwards and sometimes I won't. That's how I would phase out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=806.6s	806.6	 treats later on as I continued his training. Chop. Yes. So I'm going to cheat a little bit here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=813.0s	813.0	 get his attention on the ball and then see if his glance holds once I have eye contact and get that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=818.6s	818.6	 ball out of sight. Easy. I'm also starting to introduce the word easy in context. In other words
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=824.9s	824.9	 as he's walking slow he'll learn that easy means pay attention to me and slow down. If he slows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=830.7s	830.7	 down. Yes. Not a perfect heel but pretty good focus and if we can just refine his position a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=837.0s	837.0	 little bit. Look how wild he is. Here. Good. Let's try a turn. Oh see how he got thrown off when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=848.4s	848.4	 went to turn. Here. Yes. You see that? Did you see how he took one step that way? I'm going to steer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=856.2s	856.2	 him with the ball since he's a little confused on that turn. So come on. Got to be careful of those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=862.5s	862.5	 teeth though. He can accidentally get you. Good man. I'm going to hold the ball up to my eyes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=869.2s	869.2	 again just to make it real easy. Look at that. Here. Come on. Good. What? Here. Yes. Good man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=881.9s	881.9	 All right. Good catch. It's a pretty nice day. So Bree's going to take the car with the equipment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=887.0s	887.0	 home and Chop and I are going to take a walk or hopefully something that resembles one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=893.4s	893.4	 And talk about a completely different story. The moment we left that small patch that we were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=899.4s	899.4	 practicing on Chop was off to pulling like crazy. He immediately became super stimulated in the new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=906.6s	906.6	 setting albeit just 30 meters away from where we just were. This is clearly evidence that the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=912.6s	912.6	 progress he demonstrated earlier with his leash training has not been generalized to all or even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=919.0s	919.0	 most contexts. Sometimes when people see me, a professional dog trainer with a dog pulling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=924.7s	924.7	 like this, they think I should use a special training collar and deliver corrections in these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=929.0s	929.0	 moments. It's worth briefly explaining why I don't use that strategy though. I want to avoid creating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=934.0s	934.0	 a negative emotional response when he encounters other dogs like this when we're out and about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=938.3s	938.3	 later. So instead my strategy is going to be to look for opportunities when he's succeeding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=942.5s	942.5	 and try to set him up to succeed and build momentum during those moments. And the science
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=948.3s	948.3	 seems to indicate that this is at least as fast, if not faster. So in the meantime, when I do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=954.8s	954.8	 encounter dogs in the wild and he becomes overwhelmed and reacts to them, I'm really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=960.2s	960.2	 going to have to make sure that I manage him for now. And if you're ever going to take your dog out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=964.5s	964.5	 into the real world, you are guaranteed to encounter things that you can't control. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=970.1s	970.1	 speaking of which, here's an example. There are a couple of dogs that we encounter at pretty close
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=974.6s	974.6	 range. This can be a stressful, challenging situation for you and your dogs. He's actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=981.0s	981.0	 doing really well. I know these dogs and I know they're really friendly and they won't run into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=986.2s	986.2	 the street. So my focus is completely on Chop right now. So my game plan is to manage him and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=991.7s	991.7	 quickly move him past the dogs while keeping him very secure. My goal isn't to actually teach him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=998.2s	998.2	 how to behave in moments like this. Instead, my goal is to reduce the odds of an exuberant outburst
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1004.6s	1004.6	 because Chop is not yet prepared to act calmly in the presence of other dogs like this, at least at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1010.2s	1010.2	 this point in his training. Yeah, we were just walking past our neighbor's house and the dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1016.6s	1016.6	 got excited and wanted to say hi and he was pulling, but he actually did pretty well considering how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1022.5s	1022.5	 excited he typically gets by dogs. But yeah, he did not walk well on the way home. To be expected,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1027.6s	1027.6	 I mean, you got to do these lessons like we just did. You have to do those a whole bunch. Now that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1032.0s	1032.0	 Chop has had all of that physical and mental stimulation, I'm going to let him get some rest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1036.0s	1036.0	 and we'll see how he does when we actually leave him alone for the first time. I'm going to leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1040.9s	1040.9	 him with some water and see how he does. I think he's going to do pretty well. For good measure,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1045.9s	1045.9	 I've closed these blinds over here and I have inertia in the bedroom over here, so I'm trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1052.6s	1052.6	 to minimize distractions while we're gone. So I just kind of want it to be a boring, quiet environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1058.1s	1058.1	 for him. As we leave, we're not going to make a big deal out of anything. We're just going to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1063.0s	1063.0	 out. We're not trying to alert him or anything to the fact that we're leaving. We're just going to go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1066.6s	1066.6	 So we stopped to grab some dinner real quick and I want to check on Chop and see how he's doing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1074.2s	1074.2	 Thank you very much. Wow, what a man! Look at him. I can't. I got it. I know. I know, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1085.2s	1085.2	 I just have to give him a treat. There it goes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1090.2s	1090.2	 Hey, that's how he likes to be woken up. Me too. Yeah, exactly. How good is he being? Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1099.0s	1099.0	 Let's keep him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1102.2s	1102.2	 Bree, do not. We were talking about how much we already love him, so it's like, here we go again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1110.2s	1110.2	 He was doing so well when I was working with him on heel and he started to pick up sit all of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1115.4s	1115.4	 sudden. As of this point of the filming of this, we have not announced that Indy has left us. She
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1122.1s	1122.1	 went unexpectedly. She had organ failure that came on very suddenly. We actually monitored her blood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1129.9s	1129.9	 every three months because I'm a very paranoid pet parent and so it was truly a sudden event, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1135.9s	1135.9	 I'm happy for that in a way because I didn't want her to suffer either and she didn't. It's been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1141.7s	1141.7	 really hard. It's really hard to not have her here. It's really hard to come this series without her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1147.1s	1147.1	 It's really hard to not want to keep every dog I see too. Yeah, I know. It's been a tough time. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1153.0s	1153.0	 say this because we have the benefit of Inertia being able to have a friend to play with. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1159.5s	1159.5	 I'm sure Inertia misses Indy, so he is filling a certain void. Of course, nothing compares to.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1166.9s	1166.9	 Well, I can tell Inertia has been sad and I think she also can tell, like, I've been really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1171.4s	1171.4	 really sad and I think she obviously knows that. I'm just really sad. I really miss Indy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1178.0s	1178.0	 You know, losing a dog that you love is really hard. It's tough, man. Dogs are amazing. So it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1184.8s	1184.8	 nice for her to have Chop around and then you guys know about the two dog rule and so Zach's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1189.3s	1189.3	 struggling a little bit now. It really appears that he's just had no exposure to, like, a traditional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1195.2s	1195.2	 pet life up until now and so there's all these things. Like, today it really felt like Chop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1200.3s	1200.3	 started to understand that humans do a lot more than just bring him food and give him love. Like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1205.5s	1205.5	 we can actually try to communicate with him and we can show him what we'd like him to do and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1210.2s	1210.2	 reward him when he does it and I feel like it was a cool light bulb moment for Chop. It was fun to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1215.7s	1215.7	 watch. Exactly, exactly. I want to go see him. We've been gone too long. I wanted to show you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1220.7s	1220.7	 Look at him. Still sleeping or is he just chilling? He's just chilling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1223.8s	1223.8	 And now we've just gotten home. He's being good. I'm going to actually ignore him. One of the ways
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1231.0s	1231.0	 that I like to prevent hyperactivity when you come home is just by ignoring the dog for the first five,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1236.3s	1236.3	 ten, fifteen minutes, whatever. No need to get them excited. They're probably already a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1240.4s	1240.4	 extra excited. So we'll just ignore him for a minute. It's very hard though. Oh yeah. Then we go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1245.1s	1245.1	 love them extra later. Absolutely. Chop's house training still needs work. He will still lift his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1252.5s	1252.5	 big old leg up and try and pee on some furniture when you're not looking. I mean, fact is he's been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1258.0s	1258.0	 an outdoor dog until just the last three days of his life. So I should be understanding of this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1263.7s	1263.7	 So I've really got to do a better job of supervising him, being one step ahead of him because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1269.7s	1269.7	 potty accidents with him are like much more impactful. So I have to really do a better job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1276.7s	1276.7	 of letting him out for potty breaks often or let him hang out in a place where if he does have an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1281.7s	1281.7	 accident, it's very tolerable because you can just clean it up. I mean, our debt meets that criteria
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1286.5s	1286.5	 perfectly. I mean, my own dog, Inertia, she spends hours at a time out there. She loves the sunlight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1291.0s	1291.0	 and just chilling. And from what I've seen so far, it seems like Chop does too. So now that he's had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1295.0s	1295.0	 a potty break, I'm going to let him spend some time out on the deck while we keep an eye on him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1298.9s	1298.9	 from the living room. The single worst thing that has ever happened in my dog training career
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1307.3s	1307.3	 just happened. As you guys know, we've been using this back area to contain Chop as an alternative
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1313.8s	1313.8	 to just having him in his crate or just having him walk around in here. You know, it's nice out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1318.1s	1318.1	 there. The weather's beautiful this time of year. He's getting fresh air and for the first several
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1322.9s	1322.9	 days, he's been doing really well out there. So he's out there by himself, but we have all these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1327.8s	1327.8	 windows and one of us is always in theory keeping an eye on him. I was sitting right here and then I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1333.8s	1333.8	 looked back and I saw him jump up on the railing balancing there precariously and I tried to explain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1341.0s	1341.0	 to him to stop, but he wasn't able to regain his balance and he just plummeted. It's one of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1347.6s	1347.6	 scariest sights I have ever seen in my life. He appeared to be completely unscathed. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1354.1s	1354.1	 he didn't so much as show a limp. He immediately trotted over to the fence and peed. Fortunately,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1360.4s	1360.4	 the ground was very soft where he landed. We're installing a lawn right now so we have like fresh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1365.1s	1365.1	 topsoil. I actually did extra topsoil because it was going to be softer for dogs when I eventually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1370.2s	1370.2	 train out there. For like when I'm doing fetch training, I want a nice soft lawn for them. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1375.4s	1375.4	 lucky. We got so lucky. We ran down there. We got him. I mean, he was totally fine. I'm not proud of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1381.3s	1381.3	 the fact that this happened at all. This was my fault. It should have never happened. We really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1387.5s	1387.5	 wanted to share this with you because we wanted all of you to learn with us with this mistake here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1392.6s	1392.6	 Never underestimate how smart and determined dogs can be to push the limits. They are an incredibly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1399.6s	1399.6	 smart species and this is just a fresh reminder of that for us. I'm glad he's okay. It could have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1405.3s	1405.3	 ended up a lot worse. I just played with him and fortunately he's a pretty athletic guy, but I will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1410.6s	1410.6	 not let that happen again. This is all the more reason that I have got to prioritize my training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1415.8s	1415.8	 with him. All of his basics. Say he had gotten out and he hadn't landed in the fence and he had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1420.2s	1420.2	 landed on the other side of the fence and started running off. I'm not certain that he would have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1424.6s	1424.6	 come to me when I called him. In fact, I think he probably would not have. He still could be like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1428.7s	1428.7	 loose in the bear wilderness now. There's like wolves out there, coyotes, bears, wolverines,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1434.9s	1434.9	 porcupines. Definitely no people that will catch him. I mean, it was a nightmare. No matter what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1440.6s	1440.6	 the outcome, it was a total nightmare. He's a true escape artist though. I mean, we know that at his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1445.1s	1445.1	 foster home before he came here, he was staying in like this outdoor kennel area and he had dug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1450.2s	1450.2	 underneath trying to potentially get out, which makes sense for a dog who's bored. Here he tries
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1455.4s	1455.4	 to dig at the fence out front, but I'm always supervising him so I'm able to intervene to keep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1460.1s	1460.1	 him from doing that. Just another reason to make sure that I can instill a strong recall and get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1465.9s	1465.9	 all of his basics very tight and build that communication with him so that whoever ends up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1471.0s	1471.0	 with him is going to end up with a dog who knows how to speak human. This is reality dog training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1477.0s	1477.0	 Go to barkbox.com slash dog training and superchewer.com slash dog training to get a free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1482.3s	1482.3	 extra month when you sign up for a multi-month subscription. Follow us on Instagram, TikTok,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuDftu4J2sU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=180&pp=iAQB&t=1487.0s	1487.0	 and Facebook and get a copy of my books too. I'll have all of the info below.
