https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I'm almost out of time with George, so what I'm hoping to do today is to check in on his training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=4.5s	4.5	 and see if there's any last minute improvement we can make. Perhaps we can start with the barking?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=10.5s	10.5	 This is reality dog training. Subscribe and click the bell so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=17.0s	17.0	 So today is likely to be my last serious frisbee training session with George before we take him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=22.7s	22.7	 to his new home. So I'm really looking forward to this. You'll recall that let go has been one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=28.1s	28.1	 the issues that we've been struggling with off and on. Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's not.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=32.5s	32.5	 Today I'm hoping for more good than not. Frisbee is something that I've always enjoyed teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=38.1s	38.1	 dogs, but it's definitely physically demanding for them. And I have found that good food helps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=43.3s	43.3	 training and is a huge part of getting great results. There's a lot of ways to feed your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 a quality diet. Nom Nom is one of the freshest options available and it meets the delicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 nutrition standards of dogs, something that is shockingly hard to get right on your own.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=57.0s	57.0	 Honestly, I will admit it. I did try it myself and it tasted exactly like it looks nice and healthy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=63.3s	63.3	 If you guys want to try this, you can get 50% off a two week trial by going to try nom.com slash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=69.0s	69.0	 Zach and entering discount code Zach. I'll have a link below. Let's make sure he still remembers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=73.1s	73.1	 how to play frisbee. George go. Yep. Okay. I'd say yes. Let go. Yes. Good. Good start on let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=82.6s	82.6	 Now let's see how those multiples are doing. You'll remember multiples are where he catches
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=86.6s	86.6	 those frisbees and rapid fire succession one after the other. And he needs to be a master at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 let go to do that. Let go. Yeah. Good. Let go. Hey, so we're doing multiples like this. This is a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 way to teach George how to let go of a toy and how to further focus on me. Of course, he's got his eye
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=106.4s	106.4	 on those ducks over there. George, come. Yes. Okay. Not so much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=118.6s	118.6	 And a lot of these first three tricks are just wonderful for improving a dog's other skills in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=122.9s	122.9	 life. Well, after about three weeks of training, George still sometimes has outbursts at other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=127.9s	127.9	 dogs. Reactivity is not something that gets resolved overnight, but I love how quickly he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=132.8s	132.8	 able to recover this time. George here. Sit. No. Sit. Stay. By the way, able to get him under control
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=142.9s	142.9	 without any force, without any treats right now. He's actually really generalizing his skills quite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=147.4s	147.4	 well. So I'm out here doing some leash trading with George today. And when he's pretty revved up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=152.9s	152.9	 excited, he can definitely pull a little bit as we've seen, but he's gotten a lot better for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=157.3s	157.3	 time being though. Free walks are going to be part of my prescription for him so that he can get some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=161.5s	161.5	 of that energy out as well as playing fetch just before his training lessons as we've done. For
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 these first few minutes walking with George here, I'm just letting him check everything out. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=171.0s	171.0	 know, I don't like to just throw rules on him straight away because well, he doesn't know the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=176.6s	176.6	 rules completely, right? He's got to adapt. And we haven't done much neighborhood leash walking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=181.5s	181.5	 We've been focused on so many other types of exercises like frisbee and fetch, and we've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 doing our free walks and a lot of screensaver training in public environments, but a neighborhood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=191.4s	191.4	 walk. Well, that's something that's fairly novel to him. And when you think about it, when a dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=196.2s	196.2	 so new to training, everything is new to them. So finding things that can continually compete for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=200.8s	200.8	 their attention in these new scenarios can be challenging. And there are times when your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=205.0s	205.0	 does need to just take in their environment for a while, but mixing up treats and various currencies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 and toys during your dog's first year of training can really give you newfound momentum. One of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=215.5s	215.5	 favorite products to endorse is pup box because it's a training centric monthly subscription box
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=221.8s	221.8	 that grows along with your puppy. So they give you very specific advice based on your dog's age,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=226.8s	226.8	 and they send you the appropriate items that you need. With every box, they include a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=231.1s	231.1	 detailed training card that'll tell you what to work on each month. Give pup box a try. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=235.3s	235.3	 get 50% off of your first pup box. When you sign up for a multi month subscription by going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=239.6s	239.6	 pupbox.com slash Zach, use the discount code Zach, I'll have the info in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=244.9s	244.9	 Here comes some pulling here. Like he's really kind of intermittent on his pulling. Like now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=249.2s	249.2	 there's not pulling, right? And I'll just remind you, this is after about 10 minutes, 15 minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=254.3s	254.3	 of fetch, which is why he's panting right now. Cause I really wanted him to get that excess energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=259.8s	259.8	 out. So he wasn't extra frustrated on his walk. Notice also throughout these first couple of minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=264.6s	264.6	 of this walk, I haven't been giving him treats or anything. The bigger goal is just to get him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=268.2s	268.2	 comfortable out here in this environment. And he's being relatively good. It really is this first few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=272.6s	272.6	 minutes that can be extra frustrating with him in particular. I really like to keep the walk moving,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=278.8s	278.8	 which can be discouraging to my camera operator, but doing a lot of stopping with him tends to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=284.2s	284.2	 recharge him very, very quickly. Hold on. What do we got here? All right. So look at this. Hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=289.8s	289.8	 yes. George, look at me. Yes. Good man. I'm getting a treat for that. Here you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=297.1s	297.1	 You want a treat or not? Really good around a barking dog. I really appreciate that. Got another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=303.8s	303.8	 barking dog immediately here. This one needs a little more interested in. Isn't that interesting?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=314.6s	314.6	 Come on. Let's go. Come on. So he's given the dog a look, little excitement, but very manageable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=323.2s	323.2	 right now. You can see how he's periodically checking things out. He looks up at me sometimes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=328.2s	328.2	 He looks at his environment. I mean, after all, the point of a walk isn't for our dog to pay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=332.7s	332.7	 constant attention to us. The point of a walk is for a dog to enjoy themselves and hopefully us too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=341.8s	341.8	 You're stopping. What's that about? Come here. Here we go. Yes. Good. See what happens here. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=351.2s	351.2	 Nope. Come. Good. Stay. Look at me. Here. George. Here. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=364.6s	364.6	 You're doing great. Look at that. Getting that eye contact. Good man. Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=372.5s	372.5	 And now we go from leash walking to a proper heel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=375.6s	375.6	 Here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=381.8s	381.8	 Somewhat of a proper heel. We'll take it. Nice little casual heel. George, here. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=387.5s	387.5	 And so now I'm going to just kind of release him here to enjoy the walk.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=393.2s	393.2	 Notice I'm using the environment there. I'm not using a treat, letting the walk continue,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=397.8s	397.8	 letting him explore the world. That can be very reinforcing to dogs like George. Boy, and so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=403.5s	403.5	 what are we like six minutes into our walk? So sometimes it really feels like a long time with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=408.6s	408.6	 your dog pulling and being uncontrollable, but quite an improvement here. He just walked past
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=416.2s	416.2	 a dead snake. That was nice. The point of this lesson is that we trend towards better and better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=422.4s	422.4	 walking. Like most things in dog training, we don't just get the behaviors we want like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=428.5s	428.5	 I think a lot of people think of dog training as you should be able to walk like a dog. I think a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=432.2s	432.2	 dog training as you should be able to turn on that switch and get that dog to behave perfectly. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=436.2s	436.2	 there's so much pressure on a lot of dog trainers to do that. Believe me, I feel it all the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=442.1s	442.1	 And I think that's one of the reasons we've seen a rise of harsh tools being very popularized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=448.1s	448.1	 in dog training culture, because they have the illusion of working quite instantly. But in reality,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=453.8s	453.8	 if we really just take the time to teach our dogs how to behave without demanding quick fix results,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=460.1s	460.1	 I think we can get a lot quicker results long term with them like authentic results. George,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=466.7s	466.7	 look at me. Yes. Good boy. Oh, we got a dog across the street here. He's excited. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=475.5s	475.5	 All right. Now that George has settled down a good bit, I'm going to work on some basic heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=481.6s	481.6	 training with him. I'll see if I can get him to pay attention to me as we walk in a straight line.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=486.9s	486.9	 Okay, let's go this way. Good man. He's doing really well with that, isn't he? Let's see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=494.5s	494.5	 his left turns are doing. Can he walk in a left circle while staying next to me? Nice left circles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=500.0s	500.0	 there. Leave it. Yes. Let's go ahead and check out those right turns. These are a bit tougher
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=504.9s	504.9	 because he's got to walk slower. Look at me. He's really trying, but overall, he's really catching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=511.8s	511.8	 on pretty quick. I mean, think about how he's got to really deliberately walk extra slow. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=517.1s	517.1	 he's obviously a very athletic dog. Whenever a dog like him really, even after exercise,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=522.4s	522.4	 goes through the effort to walk that slow, you can tell that he's really trying. He's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=526.8s	526.8	 understanding the concept and you can easily see where this is headed. If this training was kept
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 up for several months, I keep thinking back to when I first met him, knew nothing about him at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=537.0s	537.0	 and learned that he'd been sitting in a shelter for just months and months and months. To see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=542.0s	542.0	 far he's come and how much he's learned and how well he's doing has just been inspiring to see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=550.1s	550.1	 Good job around that weed whacker, huh? But look, I mean, just in the interest of keeping it real,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=555.8s	555.8	 here we are at the end of our training session and we still see some pulling here. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=560.6s	560.6	 it's not like it's gone completely. I don't want to lead you to think that, oh, just because we had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=565.8s	565.8	 a good heel session there and he was doing well on loose leash walking, that it's all of a sudden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=569.8s	569.8	 fix. We still get a few seconds of pulling here and there. You're just looking for the trend there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=574.3s	574.3	 Don't be discouraged if you're not getting there all at once. I'm almost out of time with George.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=579.1s	579.1	 So what I'm hoping to do today is to check in on his training and see if there's any last minute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=584.0s	584.0	 improvement we can make. Perhaps we could start with the barking. I don't know. Dogs bark for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=589.5s	589.5	 variety of reasons. I think when you see it coupled with the playful body language there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=593.8s	593.8	 rolling over and being pretty goofy, he's probably just in a playful mood.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=599.4s	599.4	 Hey, George, come up. I like that. I like that he responded to come when called, especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=604.6s	604.6	 while in that excited state. Look at me. Yes. The winds coming off the Gulf of Mexico from all the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=610.9s	610.9	 way across the world must have many cents to them. But look at that focus. Good boy. All right. While
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=618.6s	618.6	 he's so focused, I want to work. We test his stay. Remember, stay is absolutely one of the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=624.5s	624.5	 important skills a dog should know. Stay. Using a 33 foot lead today. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=636.4s	636.4	 Yes. Stay. Reiterating stay. Being very obvious with the hand signal just to be very clear.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=643.8s	643.8	 Look at his eyes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=647.6s	647.6	 Yes. You can't do this too much. This really burns it into his brain. That's stay means stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=657.4s	657.4	 You make that look easy, don't you? Sit. Stay. Okay. Good man. So that was pretty awesome there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=663.8s	663.8	 That was my literally my first attempt of doing a circle around him, which is way easier said than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=669.5s	669.5	 done. I mean, I started to get a little warmed up by doing a quarter circle, but then I just saw it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=674.5s	674.5	 in his eyes. I mean, we put in so much work together that I really was convinced he was in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=679.0s	679.0	 a solid stay. So I kind of just went for it and I was able to get a complete circle in. The reason
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=683.8s	683.8	 this is harder than it seems is because for a brief moment, you kind of have to go out of sight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=688.2s	688.2	 with your dog. And that is weird to them. Yes. And since I have a 33 foot lead today, let's take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=698.1s	698.1	 advantage of that and make sure that we can really solidify a stay with a more significant distance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=703.4s	703.4	 The look in his eyes like, wait a minute, you've never gone that far away before. I'm resisting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=708.1s	708.1	 the urge to call him at the end of the lead. I think a lot of people do that and I do it sometimes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=713.0s	713.0	 It just depends, but I want to first solidify this stay. Walk it back and forth again, just to bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=719.9s	719.9	 some dimension to the training here. So it's not the same every time. This is a good example of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=725.5s	725.5	 proofing a stay so it doesn't always look the same. In other words, stay isn't just always about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=730.3s	730.3	 doing a linear walk back and stay. You want them staying in a variety of different ways
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=735.6s	735.6	 and circumstances. This is just one way to add another dimension to stay. See how he's doing on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=742.6s	742.6	 come now. George, come. So stay is starting to look a little bit better and even come when called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=748.9s	748.9	 there at a significant distance in an outdoor environment. First attempt, very impressive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=753.9s	753.9	 As we have established when you're training a dog, it's way easier to teach them how to listen to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=759.4s	759.4	 you and take direction from you when you're really close to them. But it's when we're farther away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=764.7s	764.7	 that things can get a little more challenging. So what I'm hoping to be able to do is to get him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=769.4s	769.4	 to sit. One of the easiest things he knows how to do while I'm farther away. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=774.3s	774.3	
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=779.0s	779.0	 Yes. Did you see that? Just one step. Yes. Okay. Good man. That was a really good example of being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=786.2s	786.2	 one step too far away from him for him to really understand the concept of sit. So I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=790.8s	790.8	 play with this for a little bit and see how we do. Sit. Sit. Yes. Good. Yes. Stay. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=804.8s	804.8	 Sit. Yes. One of his favorite tricks so far has been sit pretty. Maybe we can see if he can do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=810.9s	810.9	 from a distance here. See the difference here. Sit pretty right into it. Yes. Okay. Three inches back.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=820.0s	820.0	 What he says. Stay. Look at me. Sit pretty. Yes. Okay. That was awesome. That was farther away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=829.4s	829.4	 that time. You see that? Here. Stay. Yes. Okay. Good man. Very good. And so it may not look like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=839.3s	839.3	 much there, but being able to be just a foot farther away from him right there is huge progress. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=844.5s	844.5	 that's something that I think we can build on. See how you're doing with Shake. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=850.6s	850.6	 The Shake is more like a wave, but I'll tell you, he doesn't like it when you grab his paw as much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=855.3s	855.3	 That's okay though. Here. Shake. Good. Look at me. Hey, George. I didn't ask for that. What if I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=862.2s	862.2	 wanted you to lie down or something? Lie down. Yes. So right there, he was just anticipating. So I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=869.3s	869.3	 kind of like to be a little bit ahead of the anticipation, you know, when dogs are like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=872.7s	872.7	 I think I know what you want. So I actually wanted to throw him a different request out there. Lie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=876.9s	876.9	 down. Wait a minute. I know you mean Shake. No, I really want lie down. Yes. Okay. Good man. And now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=887.0s	887.0	 sit. Shake. Okay. I'll take a shake now. You're a good man. Yes, you are. Oh my God. I love you so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=893.4s	893.4	 much. You are so good. How's your bow doing? Stay. Yes. Stay. Yes. Stay. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=902.3s	902.3	 Bow is looking okay. One of his most impressive tricks that I have been really impressed with it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=907.4s	907.4	 anyway is roll over. Yes. Good boy. So roll over is looking great. Yes. Good. So, you know, spin is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=919.8s	919.8	 doing well. He's still working on getting his muscle memory, which is why I'm doing the heavy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=923.4s	923.4	 lure there. Let's throw a surprise. Leave it. Look at me. Drill at him. Leave it. Look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=929.4s	929.4	 I'll even take a come when called. Sit. Stay. The point of this test is to see how well he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=935.8s	935.8	 generalized. Leave it alone and look at me so that I can further direct you. Yes. Very good. I'd say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=943.5s	943.5	 he passed that test. Wouldn't you? This time I'll ask him to come to me. Come. You could see the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=948.0s	948.0	 look on his face like, Hey, what just happened? That was different, but he did it. And that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=951.8s	951.8	 great. That's what we want. We want our dogs listening to us. Went in that surprise. He's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=955.8s	955.8	 in that surprise state of mind. I mean, that really is what training is about in so many regards.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=963.0s	963.0	 This is kind of how we phase in off leash training. You might be wondering about that. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=966.8s	966.8	 getting a little bit lax here with the lead. Sometimes I'm holding it. Sometimes I'm dropping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=971.4s	971.4	 it. You know, I'm able to look around me and see there aren't heavy, heavy distractions. I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=975.7s	975.7	 want to throw them in the deep end. Okay, come. You're doing great, bud. Want to release them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=979.4s	979.4	 from that stay before he broke. I feel if I took the lead off, he would probably stay with me. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=984.0s	984.0	 would I do this in a big city? No way. But out here he's adapted. And this is kind of how we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=989.0s	989.0	 really introduce off leash training. It's phased in little by little. We're not in a rush at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=993.8s	993.8	 to get him off leash. So we want to do extensive testing and proofing with a long lead like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1000.4s	1000.4	 before we would consider letting our dog off lead in a public environment. When I look back on George,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1006.0s	1006.0	 when I first met him and I think about how he was totally untrained with the exception of sit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1010.9s	1010.9	 I just can't believe how quickly he's learned to perform like this out here. I mean, it really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1016.0s	1016.0	 goes to show you some of the best dogs ever are in pounds and shelters. Great dogs are absolutely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1023.0s	1023.0	 everywhere. And George has been a prime example of that. It's time to play some fetch with George.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1029.0s	1029.0	 This is something he absolutely loves. But so far, we've been limiting fetch to fenced environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1034.5s	1034.5	 out here. He's really focused today. So I'm feeling pretty good about playing some fetch in an open,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1039.9s	1039.9	 unrestricted field as long as I have the lead on him and keep up with him. Fetch for a dog like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1045.0s	1045.0	 George is so important because he has that energy and it can really satisfy him in a way that few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1051.1s	1051.1	 things can. All right, we got bikes coming. So I'm going to pick up the lead and see how he does.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1056.9s	1056.9	 Good man. Very good. I think he passed that test. Good boy. But one of the breakdowns we've had with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1064.7s	1064.7	 fetch throughout our time together is let go. Let go has been awful at times. It's been okay at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1070.6s	1070.6	 times, but it's never been perfect. But today I really feel like the tide is turning on let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1075.8s	1075.8	 and he's really starting to get it. One of the hacks that I've been trying to do to kind of patch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1080.2s	1080.2	 this issue is using a second toy. This isn't ideal because honestly, I want a dog letting go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1086.2s	1086.2	 when I ask them to let go. But sometimes if I distract him with the second toy, he'll let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1091.0s	1091.0	 of this one so I can pick it up. And that might be just enough to give me traction. I would not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1096.3s	1096.3	 be content with doing that long term, but I am content right now if it makes it a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1101.0s	1101.0	 easier for him. All right. Good. Get it. Hey, what's this? Good. Yes. So that's been really helpful.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1110.6s	1110.6	 Continuing to practice the recall during fetch as well. This is a great way to burn and come when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1115.8s	1115.8	 called with a fetch dog. We're essentially capturing the behavior that's already occurring,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1120.0s	1120.0	 putting a word to it while he's in the frame of mind of I'm having such a great time. And as he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1125.2s	1125.2	 burns more and more energy out here, he's getting more and more fatigued, which actually makes it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1130.0s	1130.0	 easier to practice off leash training. In other words, the more fatigue this particular dog becomes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1135.9s	1135.9	 the more reliable he's going to be off leash. And the less likely he is to bolt out or something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1141.3s	1141.3	 because he has so much pent up energy. We're really giving him an outlet for all that prey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1145.6s	1145.6	 drive, as they say, and that desire to chase, run, invite things with energetic dogs. You must give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1151.5s	1151.5	 them a healthy outlet like this. Now, if your dog is energetic and they haven't quite taken to fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1156.6s	1156.6	 yet really long walks off leash, hikes, if they're reliable off leash can be a really great way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1162.1s	1162.1	 deplete some of that energy. And I should also say you don't want to rely on sprinting activity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1167.0s	1167.0	 like this as your dog's main form of exercise forever, but fetch is a great way to get that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1172.1s	1172.1	 energy out on your terms and schedule in order to make your dog a lot more manageable. So prioritize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1177.4s	1177.4	 fetch training if your dog is anything like this one. Let's check in and see how George's play skills
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1182.6s	1182.6	 are developing with inertia. Getting a dog like George to play well with both humans and other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1188.1s	1188.1	 dogs is going to be a very important part of his life moving forward. And he's doing great so far.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1193.3s	1193.3	 In general, I tend to like dogs to play in small play groups of two or three dogs at a time so they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1198.2s	1198.2	 don't become overwhelmed. Honestly, I think inertia might be the biggest transformation here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1203.5s	1203.5	 George happens to be the biggest strongest dog that inertia has really felt comfortable with.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1208.2s	1208.2	 Some of you might recall that she's been a bit nervous about playing with bigger dogs in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1211.5s	1211.5	 past. So this has been a fantastic victory for us. I'm hoping George has helped set her up to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1217.2s	1217.2	 with even bigger dogs in the future. But I guess we'll just have to wait and see how that goes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1221.8s	1221.8	 One of the best signs that two dogs are really comfortable with each other is when you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1225.7s	1225.7	 reciprocal play like when inertia and George take turns flopping over on their backs like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1233.0s	1233.0	 That's the one it just cracks me up because he's like oh you pulled me over.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1237.4s	1237.4	 Wow, you're so strong. You don't want to let any dog just play with any dog in the world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1242.1s	1242.1	 He's really good at taking social cues and playing at the level that inertia is comfortable with.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1247.8s	1247.8	 They had to work it out a little bit. I mean it started off a little rocky but they worked it out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1252.4s	1252.4	 and it was okay. One even good girl. I love it when she flips over too. Reciprocal play. He flops over,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1258.6s	1258.6	 she flops over. If we're out talking reporter Kelly that's saying something.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1265.3s	1265.3	 They don't do that easily. Indy you want to get in on this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1269.6s	1269.6	 Maybe two dogs isn't enough. I'm just I know she's not gonna. She's looking for treats. Easy. Play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1275.4s	1275.4	 like this is just so interesting to watch as a dog trainer. It really is to watch how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1281.1s	1281.1	 dogs communicate and interact with each other in the purest form.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1286.5s	1286.5	 You know we can learn a lot from that too as trainers. I mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1292.2s	1292.2	 these two dogs like to play. They're not picky in how the play happens most of the time. They just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1296.6s	1296.6	 want to play somehow, some way. Okay I have too many shoes out for sure right now. I have three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1301.9s	1301.9	 pairs out right there and they're actually three of my favorite pairs. I have the black
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1308.0s	1308.0	 Air Force ones with the gum bottoms there and then I got my Adidas Ultra Boost Super Company
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1314.8s	1314.8	 shoes and then I've got my favorite like plaid Nike's. Oh I love those plaid ones. This is not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1320.4s	1320.4	 supposed to be a shoe tour though. I know sorry anyway the point is I'm putting a lot of trust
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1325.6s	1325.6	 in George right now and he's doing really well. He actually has I noticed these shoes were out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1330.5s	1330.5	 here yesterday and he did really well all day. Really good sign for I feel like his house training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1336.3s	1336.3	 is just coming along in leaps and bounds. Yeah. Come on buddy. He's been awesome. You're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1342.2s	1342.2	 amazing. Awesome. I'm starting to get really sad. I don't know about you Brady. So policy in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1350.5s	1350.5	 George household and probably should be in most of yours is that we don't leave chew toys or even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1358.1s	1358.1	 play toys around. We do leave shoes all around but we don't leave dog toys freely out because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1367.4s	1367.4	 we don't want them to you know have an argument over them but there are some times when George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1373.2s	1373.2	 goes into his crate he gets a bone he brings it out and we take it away from him and we have noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1379.0s	1379.0	 he's not possessive of his bones at all with inertia which is fabulous but even so we just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1386.7s	1386.7	 don't like to leave our stuff lying around high inertia. Do you like playing fetch today?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1391.8s	1391.8	 You were amazing at fetch. You were practically off leash and everything. He was. Okay so I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1401.2s	1401.2	 gonna give George a bath. It's okay. Good man. Yes. Just gonna like touch him. Remember this is only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1409.1s	1409.1	 the second bath I've given him so I'm gonna go nice and slow. Good. Look at that. I love short
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1418.1s	1418.1	 hair dogs. So much easier to clean. Good boy. See rather than just jumping into it I think that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1425.4s	1425.4	 what a lot of people might do. I certainly have before I knew better in the past but if you just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1432.7s	1432.7	 go a little extra slow dogs take the baths really well. Stay. He was pretty good on his head there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1440.6s	1440.6	 Oops. I'm trying to kind of stay away from his face. We can do that a little more by hand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1447.4s	1447.4	 Really good. All right time to soap you up. Don't ask about the shampoo. This is one of our past
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1453.2s	1453.2	 sponsors and they sent us so much shampoo. I think we have a lifetime supply. Got one of these scrubber
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1459.0s	1459.0	 things. I really like these. Gives them a nice massage. Let me go ahead and distribute all the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1465.1s	1465.1	 soap. Get them all soapy all over. You're doing so well. I'm really gonna miss this boy. He's so easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1474.9s	1474.9	 to bathe. He really just turned out to be the greatest dog ever. And I keep saying it over and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1481.2s	1481.2	 over. It really is a super amazing experience to be able to do this because anyone who's been to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1487.3s	1487.3	 a shelter knows it can really tug at your heartstrings. You feel very bad for those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1493.7s	1493.7	 dogs that have so much potential and there's just not enough people who are willing to give them a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1500.0s	1500.0	 chance. The silver lining is that I'm fortunate to have a platform and an audience and I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1506.3s	1506.3	 really excited to be able to show off this whole experience of taking homeless dogs in, fostering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1512.5s	1512.5	 them, finding them a new home, getting them trained for that new home, and sharing in detail
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1519.9s	1519.9	 the ups and downs of what that's like. You are all ups though. Every bit of it was ups. George,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1528.6s	1528.6	 look at me. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1530.2s	1530.2	 Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1536.5s	1536.5	 Good man. It's so therapeutic giving a dog a bath like this. I'm like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1544.2s	1544.2	 in my own beta state just kind of meditating here. George is making it easy. I think, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1551.0s	1551.0	 in part it's because we really set him up for success in the last bath that we gave him and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1556.2s	1556.2	 he did give me a little bit of a hard time. Today he's not even trying,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1559.3s	1559.3	 at least not too hard to get out. I know he's thinking about it. I can see that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1562.6s	1562.6	 but he hasn't tried at all to get out of the tub. I'm going to turn him around now just to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1568.0s	1568.0	 make sure I thoroughly rinse him. Stay. Almost. Good boy. Stay. Here, see?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1575.4s	1575.4	 Oh God. Well, you might have guessed, George is getting a bath before he goes on a very special
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1588.1s	1588.1	 journey with us. It's finally time to reveal George's destiny in the next episode. Go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1594.2s	1594.2	 trinom.com slash Zach to get 50% off a two-week trial of Nom Nom and find out if your dog loves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1599.2s	1599.2	 it as much as George and inertia do. I want you to have all of the training resources you can so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1603.6s	1603.6	 all of you can get 50% off your first pup box too. I'll have all of the details in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1608.3s	1608.3	 description below. Subscribe to my channel, follow us on Instagram, TikTok and Facebook,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oIwNQAqRij4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=190&pp=iAQB&t=1612.8s	1612.8	 and get a copy of my books too. We'll see you in the next episode.
