https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 With Kona today. I think you need to be trained. Let's see if she honors that stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=8.2s	8.2	 Nope. Ah, I saw it coming. I'm Zach George. I'm a dog trainer. Meet my new project, Kona. I've got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=16.5s	16.5	 just three weeks to train her and set her up for the most well-behaved life possible. That means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 I need to work on the most common puppy issues like potty training, how to actually pay attention,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=25.3s	25.3	 stopping things like play biting, chewing, separation anxiety, getting along with other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 animals, leash walking and teaching her everything a good dog needs to know. Real dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 doesn't always go smoothly and that's why I'm going to show you every success and mistake and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=39.7s	39.7	 how I work through all the most challenging parts of raising a new puppy. Welcome to your new puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=45.0s	45.0	 survival guide. Kona and I are going to get into a lot of interesting training today. And you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 my dog Inertia. She loves the holidays. BarkBox and SuperChewer have joined the peanuts universe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=59.3s	59.3	 Inertia, this is actually a Christmas miracle. BarkBox is a monthly box that ships you really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=65.6s	65.6	 dynamic new toys and treats every month that your dog is going to love. You're a snowman, Charlie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=72.2s	72.2	 Brown. That's the most singing you will ever get from me ever. I think Snoopy might actually be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=79.1s	79.1	 border collie. Look at the resemblance. It's uncanny. Or is Inertia actually a beagle? What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=84.6s	84.6	 impresses me so much about Bark's toys is the level of detail in every single one of them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=89.1s	89.1	 Check out the treats. Really good ingredients in these. But it is true, there are some dogs out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=93.4s	93.4	 there that are really hard on toys like this. For those dogs, they're SuperChewer. Same concept as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=99.1s	99.1	 Bark, except you get extra durable toys. Underneath this very tough fabric is a really firm squeaky toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=107.0s	107.0	 It's Snoopy again. Still looks like her. Snoopy's bone is included and a SuperChewer dog is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=112.3s	112.3	 to need extra chew so you get two of them. No matter how hard your dog is on toys, they're still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=117.0s	117.0	 going to like treats. All of you can get a free BarkBox SuperChewer box or both by going to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=121.8s	121.8	 special link and signing up for a six or 12 month plan. I'll have those links in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=126.2s	126.2	 We're going to cover two things that every new puppy parent on earth needs to know about today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=131.2s	131.2	 And there are certain things that are likely to throw just about any dog off in this world. But if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=135.9s	135.9	 we really are proactive about all of this, we can actually short circuit that and prevent a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=140.8s	140.8	 those fears and phobias from occurring in the first place. At least we can try. So today I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=145.3s	145.3	 hoping to walk you through a few things that you can do with your own dog that will help prevent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=149.1s	149.1	 them from being fearful of a variety of things in the real world. Think about something as mundane as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=154.5s	154.5	 opening a garbage bag in front of your dog. If they're not used to it, they might be like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=158.6s	158.6	 what is that popping sound when you go and do it really aggressively like that? Actually,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=163.2s	163.2	 that was really good. Good girl. This is just simple conditioning here. Garbage bag equals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 you getting something great. Let's see if I can get it all the way open.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=177.6s	177.6	 And look at this. I mean, so far, flawless. She's doing great. She's not even a little bit nervous.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=182.6s	182.6	 If your dog was a little nervous, that would be your cue to take a step back and be even more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=186.4s	186.4	 gentle with the bag as you're letting them become more familiar with it. You don't know the laws of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=190.8s	190.8	 physics yet. If you're a dog, well, maybe if you're Kona, you do because she's brilliant. Sit. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=196.6s	196.6	 girl. Good. A little bit more aggressive that time with it. And yes, she's actually quite interested.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=210.1s	210.1	 She's behaving really well. I also like that she's not trying to attack the trash bag too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=214.1s	214.1	 Something that can also startle many dogs are kitchen appliances, like a can opener. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=219.1s	219.1	 going to make a little sound. She's already looking at it like, what are you doing? What's that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=224.1s	224.1	 I just start extra small. I'm just like moving it around, letting her know it does this before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=229.0s	229.0	 I even initiate the motor on the can opener. Yes. Very good. So no issues here so far. Let's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=237.7s	237.7	 really go for it. Strange. Yes. Good work. All right. All right. Let's do something a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=249.0s	249.0	 more unconventional. Even a balloon can be really weird to dogs. So just showing them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=253.8s	253.8	 that bizarre things like this exist can be really beneficial.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 So far, she's like, just give me that treat. That's great. That's exactly what we want. We
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=265.2s	265.2	 don't really want her to react negatively or we don't want her to be startled.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=270.9s	270.9	 Good. Nice work. Weird sounds. You can do this an infinite number of ways with just about anything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=277.4s	277.4	 And the idea is that if you continually are introducing things like this to your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=281.8s	281.8	 when you encounter something organic, they'll at least have seen a variety of different things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=285.9s	285.9	 in their life. So when they see yet one other new thing, it's not quite as impactful. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=292.5s	292.5	 That's great. I can train dogs, but I can't tie a balloon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=297.6s	297.6	 No balloons going to defeat me. Balloons move a little different than everyday objects.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=302.4s	302.4	 Is that? Yes. And she's more likely probably to explore it than to back away from it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=308.8s	308.8	 which is great. Yes. Of course, I don't want her popping it or anything. Yes. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=317.0s	317.0	 Nice. Sit. Stand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=322.7s	322.7	 Yes. Good. She's even performing some of her basic obedience around this new thing. So really cool.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=330.1s	330.1	 But how about the ultimate nemesis for many dogs? The vacuum cleaner. All right. We're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=336.7s	336.7	 plug this vacuum cleaner in. By the way, you know what? Why don't I just go ahead and I mean that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=342.3s	342.3	 in and of itself is kind of weird right there. Just pulling the cord out. I don't think I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 ever used this particular vacuum cleaner. Oh boy. Okay. Yeah. This is sit. This isn't starting off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=352.2s	352.2	 how I wanted it to start off. Ideally, I want her ignoring this. So we pull the vacuum cleaner
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=357.8s	357.8	 closer to the outlet. That's fine. I like that she's sniffing it and investigating it. Of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=362.9s	362.9	 she has no idea that it is very loud and makes a sound that startles many dogs. I think the easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=370.5s	370.5	 thing will be to show her that it moves. Yes. Before I even turn it on. Good girl. She's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=377.8s	377.8	 understanding the word. Yes means that she's getting a treat. I like that. Yes. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=384.1s	384.1	 See that just breaking it down into a few steps. I mean, really, this just takes a couple of minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=389.4s	389.4	 to do. It's not like you have to really come up with some detailed plan. You just move it around,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=394.4s	394.4	 let her check it out, make sure that her behavior is one that seems comfortable. If your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=401.0s	401.0	 scared of the vacuum or you just want to prevent them from being nervous of the vacuum cleaner,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=405.4s	405.4	 you would do these same exercises. Kona. Yes. Really doing well. And come when called.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=414.2s	414.2	 All right. Now comes the big test. We're actually going to power on the motor,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=418.8s	418.8	 but let's put her over here for a minute. Let's give her a little bit of space so she doesn't feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=422.8s	422.8	 totally stunned. Interesting. So you can see just turning it on for, yes, a fraction of a second.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=432.2s	432.2	 She's like, Whoa, wait a minute. No one told me about this. One thing I don't want to do right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=437.6s	437.6	 was turn it on while she's really close to it. After she's investigated it. I think most people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=442.1s	442.1	 would tend to move too quickly on something like this, even though the whole process just takes a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=445.8s	445.8	 couple of minutes. Really. Let me toss a treat over here. Get some distance. Yes. Good girl. Very good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=458.6s	458.6	 So she's acknowledging it, but doesn't seem to be terrified of it. Go back to just moving it. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=465.8s	465.8	 Yes. All right. Let's try. Yes. Now check this out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=478.2s	478.2	 There we go. So I was able to get her to take the treat while being near it. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=484.2s	484.2	 push it away from her. Yes. There you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=495.3s	495.3	 Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=502.6s	502.6	 Maybe I can have her come over here. Kona. Yes. I'll go over there and call her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=513.4s	513.4	 Yes. I didn't even have to call you. Look how good you are. I know. What's this weird thing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=518.3s	518.3	 Kona.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=522.6s	522.6	 Ah, I saw it coming. I saw it coming. I was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=531.0s	531.0	 knew she was going to do that. My bad. Come on out here pretty girl. Go pee.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=539.0s	539.0	 Let her finish. Good girl. So that was a good example of interrupting her. Obviously she's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=545.1s	545.1	 fully potty trained yet. We've been working on it. Again, my bad. No reason to get mad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=549.4s	549.4	 or discipline her or yell at her. I should be taking her out more often. So that's what I will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=554.2s	554.2	 take from that lesson. Are you done? Hold on. I got to clean up your pee. Potty training has been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=558.6s	558.6	 going moderately well. It does seem though that disproportionately she has accidents in the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=563.9s	563.9	 when we're doing a shoot like this. Ironically enough, my attention is divided. In other words,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=569.4s	569.4	 I'm too focused on training to potty train and oh no, I dropped the vacuum.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=580.1s	580.1	 Yes. Good girl. Things fall over sometimes. It's important for them to get familiar with it when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=586.3s	586.3	 you can control all of the variables. Yes. Good girl. Even though she's a bit cautious as this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=597.3s	597.3	 goes on here, she's free to go. She's free to go anywhere in the house at this point. She's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=601.8s	601.8	 being restrained, but she's choosing to stay nearby. She's not barking. So overall a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=607.4s	607.4	 good introduction I'd say to the vacuum cleaner. Now you might be wondering about things like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=611.6s	611.6	 thunderstorms. I mean, tons of dogs are really nervous about thunderstorms. I detail this in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=616.5s	616.5	 my second book in particular on dealing with noise phobias. Okay. Really? Ouch. Ow. No.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=624.5s	624.5	 Dealing with puppy biting is detailed in my first book. Ouch. Pretty good. All right. So hold on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=630.4s	630.4	 I'll be right back. Since she wants to get in a bitey mood, right? As you and I are trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=635.4s	635.4	 have a conversation, I'm going to go ahead and give her something to bite on while I talk to you. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=640.5s	640.5	 it's okay to bite on this. It's not okay to bite on me. So her puppy biting still there. Just a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=647.4s	647.4	 little while ago, Kona and I were playing out in the backyard and there was, you know, some rain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=652.2s	652.2	 coming down and I noticed a big flash of lightning and I was like, oh man, this is going to be the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=657.6s	657.6	 loudest thunder ever. Oh boy. It's gonna, there's been a flash of lightning. There's about to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=662.8s	662.8	 very loud sound. So I was like, I'm going to get her playing with this beer mug bark box toy. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=667.8s	667.8	 she was like, okay, cool. Now, did she notice the loud boom? Of course. There it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=682.2s	682.2	 Okay. Go get it. Nice job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=690.8s	690.8	 My logic was if I can get her doing something that she appears to be enjoying, like playing with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=695.3s	695.3	 toy during this event that many dogs find frightening, then maybe I'll have a shot at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=699.6s	699.6	 conditioning her that, hey, when the thunder comes, playtime happens all the time. It can be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=704.9s	704.9	 challenging to plan for training that gets your dog comfortable around thunderstorms. So you really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=711.8s	711.8	 have to take advantage of in the moment opportunities. So in that case, you know, we saw, I saw the flash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=719.5s	719.5	 and I knew there was going to be a pretty loud thunder afterwards. If we can go out of our way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=724.9s	724.9	 to get her playing during something that potentially scares a lot of other dogs, that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=730.4s	730.4	 good thing. Lots of good brain chemicals going on. She's confident, having a good time. And there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=737.6s	737.6	 loud thunder going off in the background. Really good thunder phobia prevention, I guess. So sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=743.5s	743.5	 you have to really snap into training mode and take advantage of those real life organic instances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=748.2s	748.2	 that present themselves. So one of the things we're learning today is that we want to be very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=751.8s	751.8	 careful and proactive about introducing new things to our puppy. Keep in mind that puppies are actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=757.4s	757.4	 going through their critical socialization period when they're between four and 14 weeks old. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=763.0s	763.0	 really important to give them positive exposure to as many things as possible during this time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=767.5s	767.5	 to help prevent them from being afraid of new things later in life. Notice I said positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=772.2s	772.2	 exposure. That's because puppies also go through fear periods where they are essentially extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=777.1s	777.1	 sensitive to things that might scare them. For those of you with puppies around eight to 12
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=781.0s	781.0	 weeks old, you might've noticed them actually acting extra timid around seemingly unscary things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=786.9s	786.9	 And that's because this is around the time when puppies really start to leave their mom and explore
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=791.9s	791.9	 the world. What we're calling the fear period is really just a dog's natural ability to quickly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=796.8s	796.8	 learn what is potentially dangerous and what's not. It's obviously advantageous for puppies to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=801.7s	801.7	 little extra cautious when they're first going out and exploring the world, right? It might be tempting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=805.9s	805.9	 to just hide your puppy away until this fear period passes, but that's the last thing you want to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=811.4s	811.4	 It's a really important time to give them that exposure to as many things as reasonably possible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=815.9s	815.9	 Just make sure that when you set up these socialization events to go out of your way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=819.9s	819.9	 make it a very positive experience for your puppy. Now there's actually a very significant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=824.3s	824.3	 second fear period that often happens between the age of six and 14 months of age. And of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=830.2s	830.2	 the degrees of these fear periods can vary widely from dog to dog. And just as with the first fear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=835.7s	835.7	 period, you'll want to go out of your way to do a lot of the same techniques and exercises
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=840.6s	840.6	 that we've done with Kona today. I think you need to be trained. Doesn't she need to be trained?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=846.6s	846.6	 Yeah. We need to make your stay or something better. Let's go do that. Okay. Come on, girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=854.4s	854.4	 You might remember we've worked on a basic stay for a period of time, a stay when we walk away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=859.8s	859.8	 and a stay while mildly distracted with Kona so far. I think it's time that we take stay to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=865.1s	865.1	 next level with her. One of the first ways that I like to teach a mildly advanced stay to a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=870.8s	870.8	 is to teach them how to stay at an open door. The reason this is particularly tough is the doorway
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=876.2s	876.2	 represents a doorway into a very exciting environment for most dogs, right? The smells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=881.8s	881.8	 come rushing in when you open the door, there's dogs and cats and people and everything under the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=887.1s	887.1	 sun, literally speaking out there. So you can understand why teaching your dog to stay when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=892.9s	892.9	 you open this door is important, especially if you have a road in front of your house,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=897.4s	897.4	 as probably most people do. All right. So let's see what happens when I open the door. We'll just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=901.2s	901.2	 get a baseline here. Let me see. I'll even say stay. Let's see if she honors that stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=908.5s	908.5	 Nope, she sure didn't. See, this is what I mean. Dogs don't generalize something. Just because you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=913.8s	913.8	 teach them in a very controlled setting doesn't mean they now understand it in this specific
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=918.5s	918.5	 context of opening the door. If she wasn't on leash, this could be very bad. Kona, Kona, Kona.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=924.1s	924.1	 Ah, yes. Good girl. Very good. To be crystal clear, you would always want to be extra safe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=931.9s	931.9	 when you're teaching stay at doorways. So not only do I have her on leash, not only am I holding the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=937.8s	937.8	 leash, but I also have the leash attached to my belt so that in the event I fail, there's still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=943.5s	943.5	 some likelihood that she's going to be restrained. Let's get her warmed up with her basic stay. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=947.6s	947.6	 will just take a sec to remind her. Stay. Look at me. Yes. And okay. Come on. Good. Letting her know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=960.2s	960.2	 the stay is over there. This is an important prerequisite to teaching your dog how to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=964.7s	964.7	 when they're distracted. Sit. Yes. Just giving her tiny pieces of the treat there. Stay. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=975.0s	975.0	 Very good. Just going to jiggle the doorknob there. Yes. In other words, I'm not doing this in one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=981.8s	981.8	 step. I'm going to break this down into several tiny steps. Let her get used to seeing that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=986.7s	986.7	 Opening it for a fraction of a second. Look at me. Perfect. Right on cue. She's doing terrific.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=992.2s	992.2	 Yes. So in other words, listening to me is what you do, not acting upon your impulses and running
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=997.6s	997.6	 outside. Look at me. Yes. Look how quickly she's getting this. Stay. Now if she were to advance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1007.6s	1007.6	 that would probably mean I was asking for too much too early. Look at me. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1015.4s	1015.4	 Here. I'm going to step on the leash there, just preventing her from going out. Kona, come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1021.2s	1021.2	 Kona. Yes. Good girl. Good. Okay. So there we had a failure point. I'm going to go ahead and close
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1036.3s	1036.3	 the door, limiting her access to outside. Stay. Down the spine. Yes. Good. She kind of jumped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1049.2s	1049.2	 right there like she was thinking about getting up, but she's like, wait a minute. I know this one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1053.4s	1053.4	 Good girl. Okay. And I'm continually letting her out of that state just to be very clear that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1058.6s	1058.6	 okay, you don't have to stay right this second. We're going to practice again in a moment. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1064.9s	1064.9	 Stay. Yes. She automatically looked at me. Is it to say, what do I do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1075.4s	1075.4	 Ah, ah, ah. Even though I could have closed the door there, I was clear to get in front of her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1080.5s	1080.5	 and the door and prevent her from going outside. I really wanted to give her the benefit of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1085.0s	1085.0	 doubt and have her have the experience of walking through the motion of staying while this door was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1090.5s	1090.5	 wide open. So now we're introducing multiple distractions. Look at me. Yes. Okay. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1098.9s	1098.9	 We have the distraction of outside rushing inward, and we also have the treats that I dropped in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1104.0s	1104.0	 front of her. Good. Now what happens if I toss this treat outside? Here, look at me. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1113.8s	1113.8	 Look at me. Yes. Stay. Look at me. Yes. Come. Good girl. Yeah. Let's see how she does when it gets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1129.0s	1129.0	 even more exciting outside. This is a brand new toy that she's never seen before. Brand new toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1135.4s	1135.4	 are extra enticing to many dogs. That's why I want to use this one. Sit. Stay. Here. Look at me. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1143.9s	1143.9	 Just want to get her warmed up before I toss her in the deep end. Lie down. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1151.3s	1151.3	 And again, I've got these treats, but I'm breaking them up into really small ones. I know a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1155.2s	1155.2	 you are going to be saying that, man, you're giving her so many treats. How do you keep her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1159.1s	1159.1	 from getting fat? I give them tiny treats like that. And with her being so young, it's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1165.2s	1165.2	 important to provide acceptable reinforcement to your dog to let them know what you really like.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1170.8s	1170.8	 Stay. Just be really clear. Look at me. Yes. This is actually a pretty good place to stop with most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1179.3s	1179.3	 dogs, but I'm going to try and up the difficulty level a little bit more since she is really doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1184.3s	1184.3	 so well. My next goal is to simulate something that's a little more real world. In other words,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1188.9s	1188.9	 being able to rapidly approach the door, quickly place her into a sit, stay, open the door and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1194.2s	1194.2	 toss a toy out. I'm hoping to do all of that really close. So I'm not warning her every step of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1199.1s	1199.1	 way and setting it up. I want to see if she can start to process that quick thinking,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1203.2s	1203.2	 which is ultimately what we'll want. Okay. Come on, Kona. Let's go. Sit. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1214.9s	1214.9	 Look at me. Come. Yeah. There we go. Awesome job. Good girl. Nice job. Look how we're starting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1223.4s	1223.4	 combine everything. Did you see how much we just threw at her? We did sit and stay, and then we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1227.9s	1227.9	 distracted her and we threw something out the door. So she had to really tap on that impulse control
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1232.8s	1232.8	 that she's had to learn about recently. So all of this in a very short period of time. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1237.4s	1237.4	 would I trust her to stay at that door right now in a real life situation? Not a chance. We have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1242.2s	1242.2	 practice this a lot. You might find that a really quick way to get your dog listening to you in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1247.0s	1247.0	 general is just to get into the habit of having them hold a sit, stay 10 seconds at a time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1252.6s	1252.6	 Every time you approach a door that leads to the outdoors, this heavy repetition over an extended
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1257.6s	1257.6	 period of time is really likely to teach them that you mean stay when you ask them to stay in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1262.4s	1262.4	 situation. But this is how you teach it. And this is how you get traction. And as long as you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1266.7s	1266.7	 consistent, your dog ought to really internalize the skill of staying when they want to go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1272.2s	1272.2	 Every puppy should learn how to stay no matter what. Get a Super Chewer Box, BarkBox, or both
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1277.4s	1277.4	 when you sign up for a multi-month subscription at superchewer.com slash dog training and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1282.2s	1282.2	 barkbox.com slash dog training. Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok, and get a copy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1287.2s	1287.2	 of both of my books so you have all of the information to teach your dog anything. We'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-6-Ow5t7wQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=239&pp=iAQB&t=1291.8s	1291.8	 see you guys next time.
