https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 All right, we've got some dogs coming by over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=5.2s	5.2	 I'm Zach George. I'm a dog trainer. Meet my new project, Kona. I've got just three weeks to train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=10.6s	10.6	 her and set her up for the most well-behaved life possible. That means I need to work on the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=14.6s	14.6	 common puppy issues like potty training, how to actually pay attention, stopping things like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=19.1s	19.1	 play biting, chewing, separation anxiety, getting along with other animals, leash walking, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=24.3s	24.3	 teaching her everything a good dog needs to know. Real dog training doesn't always go smoothly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 and that's why I'm going to show you every success and mistake and how I work through all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=33.5s	33.5	 the most challenging parts of raising a new puppy. Welcome to your new puppy survival guide.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=41.1s	41.1	 Today is absolutely huge for Kona. It's going to be her very first public training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=46.7s	46.7	 Let's see what Pup Box sent us this month. Pup Box is an awesome product because they send you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=51.9s	51.9	 training supplies, treats, and toys based on your dog's specific age. One of the things that really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=57.7s	57.7	 separates Pup Box is that they send you a training guide like this every single month so that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=62.0s	62.0	 know what you should be working on. So we're going to get some training treats. I know we're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=65.8s	65.8	 to need those. In fact, what I'm going to do is I'm going to put some of those in here right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=70.2s	70.2	 This is an awesome ball. It actually lights up when it's dark. So you have these little stars.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=74.5s	74.5	 They go in the moon. Once she figures it out, dogs really love pulling those little squeaky toys out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=79.6s	79.6	 of the bigger toy there. So you can see she's immediately into that one. That's going to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=83.8s	83.8	 lot of fun. A new toy can really jumpstart a new training session with your dog and get them super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=88.6s	88.6	 excited. And with young puppies, they need to tease. So these teething rings are really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=92.8s	92.8	 So you'll find that getting a Pup Box every month is really helpful for keeping your training extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=97.5s	97.5	 interesting, not only for your dog, but for you too. And Pup Box is going to give everyone 50%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=102.4s	102.4	 off of your first Pup Box when you sign up for a three, six or 12 month subscription. Go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=106.8s	106.8	 pupbox.com slash Zach and enter discount code Zach. The details will be in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=112.1s	112.1	 So today is really a special training day for Kona. We are in public for the first time. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=117.6s	117.6	 is a public park out here. This is going to be Kona's very first screensaver training lesson.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=123.1s	123.1	 We kind of coined these sessions, screensaver sessions, because it really just allows her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=127.8s	127.8	 to let the world go past her, let her observe things, things that she hasn't seen before,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=132.6s	132.6	 or maybe things that she's seen, but isn't quite sure of. So there's a lot of value in these for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=138.0s	138.0	 young dogs. People tend to think of socializing their dog with people and other dogs, which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 important for a young dog, but socializing them to places is extremely important. And sometimes that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=148.6s	148.6	 gets overlooked. Kona has gotten the clearance from her vet to go out in public. And just out of an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=154.5s	154.5	 abundance of caution, I'm taking her to this less populated park, which happens to be right behind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=159.0s	159.0	 our house, which is why I bought this house. It's a great place to train a dog. This path right here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=165.8s	165.8	 I find to be very valuable for introducing a new dog to the world because you have a steady stream
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=170.8s	170.8	 of walkers. You get some dogs here and there. You get bicycles. Of course you have all of the smells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=176.0s	176.0	 coming off of Lake Pontchartrain, which is actually quite nice, believe it or not. Well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=181.1s	181.1	 most of the time anyway. Now there's a bike coming by over here. It looks like it's got her attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=186.3s	186.3	 So I'm just going to let her check it out. Hopefully she'll react well. Look at that. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=192.1s	192.1	 yeah. How about that? Good job. And see, there's an exposure. She got to see something go by that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 she hasn't seen before. She reacted well. Kona. Yes. Good girl. Nice. And again, in public,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=207.6s	207.6	 I'm going to reinforce that recall when she comes to me. I mean, as close to a hundred percent as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=212.1s	212.1	 possible. It's such a vital skill. Kona. Good girl. Come. What? I feel like I just hit a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=221.6s	221.6	 grand slam right there. She saw those bikes. I don't know if you could see her glancing at it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=226.5s	226.5	 I noticed she looked at me. So I'm like, I'm going to try and get a free come when called here while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=230.2s	230.2	 she's mildly distracted by this new thing. So come when called already looking good. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=235.1s	235.1	 I wasn't going to insist that she come to me when I call her in this new place, but since she's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=240.2s	240.2	 so well, why not? Nice job, girl. Kona. Come on. Nice. Kona. Yes. Good girl. Fantastic.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=258.5s	258.5	 A plus so far. All right. We've got some dogs coming by over here. So she's going to get some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=262.8s	262.8	 good exposure to dogs she hasn't seen before. And they're going to walk by. I'm not going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=267.0s	267.0	 let her socialize with them right now, but dogs don't have to interact with one another to gain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=272.5s	272.5	 some socializing experience. So she's a lot more interested in the dogs than the treat here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=279.8s	279.8	 See, I can't even give her a treat because she's like, whoa, those are interesting. Hi, how are you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=284.4s	284.4	 Nice dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=290.6s	290.6	 I know. So here I'm just happy to let her bark and acknowledge them. But I wanted to show you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=296.2s	296.2	 that she was not interested in a treat because something like a dog is super exciting to a puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=301.7s	301.7	 And that's okay. I'm not going to insist that she be the perfect dog right now in this training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=306.7s	306.7	 lesson. Hey, what's this? Good. Sit. Now I can get a sit. Now I can get her attention. That's a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=313.1s	313.1	 good example, by the way, of how dogs become more compliant, the more distance there is between them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=319.2s	319.2	 and the thing they're interested in. So as the dogs got farther away, you saw that I was able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=323.5s	323.5	 to get her to be more compliant. That's normal. And of course, over time, your focus is to shrink
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=328.4s	328.4	 that distance. But again, the point of today's lesson isn't to get strong obedience out of her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=333.0s	333.0	 Point of today's lesson is to say, Hey, there's a planet out here that you might want to check out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=337.8s	337.8	 There's some things you need to know about it. So that's what we're hoping to make a dent in.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=343.0s	343.0	 We have a dog coming up over here. So if she seems receptive to it, I'm going to try and ask for some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=347.8s	347.8	 basic attention, like a look at me. And if I can do that, I'm going to reinforce it with a treat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=351.8s	351.8	 because ultimately, getting your dog's attention around other dogs is one of the tougher things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=358.1s	358.1	 Yes. Kissy sound was successful in getting her attention. Nice job, girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=363.9s	363.9	 Yes. Good girl. I'm just giving her small bits of treat here. Hi, how are you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=370.6s	370.6	 Well, I'm doing some training with her right now. So I'm afraid she's going to lose her mind.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=375.0s	375.0	 So thank you for offering those really nice. You know, there's a time and a place for everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=380.9s	380.9	 Right now we're focused more on general exposure. So by the way, you notice how she just has been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=386.7s	386.7	 sitting here the whole time. Yes. Very good. There's a time to socialize a dog with other dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=393.0s	393.0	 And there's a time to say, Hey, we're not going to go up to every dog we see. And so I guess my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=397.0s	397.0	 instinct there was, I don't want to set a precedent of, Oh, you see a dog, we're going to go and play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=401.7s	401.7	 with that dog. I wanted to know that look, sometimes dogs go by and they just go, Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=406.7s	406.7	 here come the dogs again. These are the two dogs she saw last time. So here we're a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=410.6s	410.6	 farther away. Maybe we'll get more polite behavior out of her. Again, this really underscores how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=415.2s	415.2	 important distance is when you're trying to teach your dog to behave acceptably. And even if she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=420.2s	420.2	 bark here, it's okay. But she's behaving well. Yes. Want this? See that? Isn't that funny? Took a second
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=427.7s	427.7	 for her to take the treat because she was so fixated on the dogs. It's okay. You can look at the puppies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=432.8s	432.8	 Yes. Oh, what well behaved dogs, right away. Huh? Look at them. They're checking around. Yes. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=442.2s	442.2	 girl. So you can see what I mean by screensaver dog training here, right? I mean, you get the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=447.8s	447.8	 occasional distraction coming by the occasional dogs, you have the waves and the smells in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=452.2s	452.2	 background, but we're not overwhelming her or an endating her with every distraction in the world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=457.4s	457.4	 It's just, Hey, here's a little slice of the world. What do you think? Oh, here comes the bike again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=462.9s	462.9	 Hey, what's up? This job girl. Yeah, good. And so really, I'm not really focused on training her,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=472.6s	472.6	 even though I'm giving her a treat. I'm more just trying to condition her that, Hey, that thing came
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=476.5s	476.5	 by, you were good. You got something you like. I'm just trying to chip away and seal in those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=481.9s	481.9	 more desired behaviors where I can when they happen organically like that. That's why we've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=486.9s	486.9	 got to get out in the real world. And we've got to train with our dogs, but you can do this just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=490.7s	490.7	 about anywhere. I mean, you know, look around your own community. What makes sense? Surely you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=495.2s	495.2	 find a bench at a park, or even if you live in a big city, you can go off the beaten path and let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=499.7s	499.7	 your dog observe all of the activity at a reasonable distance. So you might've noticed the lake right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=504.8s	504.8	 here. Let's go give her a closer look at that and see what she makes of it. Experiencing the sound
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=509.2s	509.2	 of the waves and looking at them up close is likely to have some value. Okay. We have a jogger coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=514.1s	514.1	 by. Let's let her observe the jogger. Dogs are generally attracted to people running more than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=518.7s	518.7	 they are walking. Yes. Kona. Kona, come on. You're making me look too good here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=528.4s	528.4	 We have a dog training series to do. Give me something to train you. Come on. I'm not really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=533.8s	533.8	 focused on leash manners right now. Remember? Now imagine what this might look like to a dog as,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=538.9s	538.9	 as this big body of water tends to fill their vision as they approach it. I mean, you can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=544.0s	544.0	 she's even being a little guarded as we get close. It can be daunting. I mean, even to a person,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=548.6s	548.6	 it's like, man, that's a lot of water. Kona, come on. Oh, look at that. Now see, unexpected. I thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=558.7s	558.7	 she might've walked up a little bit more enthusiastically, but she's like, let me, let me check that out for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=564.7s	564.7	 minute. There are the bikes. Good girl. See that bike passed a close range. Yes. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=574.6s	574.6	 Here. Okay. Remember the environment counts as reinforcement too. If that's what your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=581.0s	581.0	 interested in at that particular moment. And so there's recently been water up here. So a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=586.6s	586.6	 different smells from the water have washed up, but now she look at her. She's like, wait a minute.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=590.3s	590.3	 She's noticed the waves. She's decided to wrap herself up in a leash and bite her tail as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=594.6s	594.6	 consequence. What are you doing? Let's see what she wants to do. Look at that. What do you think?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=601.6s	601.6	 Isn't that interesting? Screen saver training. It's like meditation, only better on a session like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=607.7s	607.7	 this. It's a fine line between enforcing, leave it and just letting them smell and explore. But right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=615.1s	615.1	 now the emphasis is definitely on exploring, but let's get her away from this stuff here. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=620.3s	620.3	 it's a good opportunity as well, since we're out here to put some movement to the screen saver.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=624.7s	624.7	 Maybe we can walk around a little bit since we're on the lead again, this is more of a free walk than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=629.7s	629.7	 anything. You'll recall that a free walk is just letting your dog walk on their own terms, provided
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=635.4s	635.4	 they're safe and on a long lead like this, of course, that's opposed to a training walk, which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=639.6s	639.6	 has a bit more structure to it. And so that's a good way to get her to walk around. And so that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=644.4s	644.4	 a bit more structure to it where we keep our dog a lot closer to us. Come on. Yeah. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=656.0s	656.0	 Hey, I'm over here. I think she forgot about me halfway through, but I mean, you just look at her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=661.3s	661.3	 You can see she's like, Oh, I want to see what this is. I want to see what that is. Good work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=666.0s	666.0	 Good girl. Yes. When she checks in with me like that, or when she gives me any attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=672.8s	672.8	 voluntarily, I want to reinforce that by giving her a treat as long as she's taking them and she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=677.0s	677.0	 like, cool, I'll take that. I'm happy to give it to her. That'll make future training a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=681.3s	681.3	 easier as well. So here, Kona is just like, Hey, I'm going to take a break. I'm going to lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=685.4s	685.4	 and appreciate these waves and this person exercising. Let's see if she'll come to me. Kona,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=692.4s	692.4	 come, come on. Come on. No. See that? See how she didn't come because she's really distracted.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=703.5s	703.5	 Hi. Good morning. Good girl. I really wanted to get that out of her there. Did you see how she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=711.8s	711.8	 didn't pay attention to me as the woman was getting closer? But then again, as the distance reached a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=716.7s	716.7	 certain point, Kona is like, all right, I'll pay attention to you. Now over time, we of course want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=720.9s	720.9	 to minimize those instances and teach her to listen to us no matter how close something is, but one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=726.8s	726.8	 step at a time. Okay. Kona has had some time to adjust and take everything in. So I think we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=731.7s	731.7	 practice some basic training while in this screensaver environment. Now I have to be pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=736.8s	736.8	 flexible on today's lesson. I don't know what I'm going to get out of her. I don't know what her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=739.8s	739.8	 attention is going to be like. There are five things that I want to go over today that I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=744.9s	744.9	 like to make sure that every new pet parent really understands when it comes to training a dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=750.3s	750.3	 because they're not always that obvious. Probably the first thing that I tell anyone new to training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=755.0s	755.0	 a dog is keep your expectations realistic. It's normal not to know how long it takes to get a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=761.4s	761.4	 up to speed and how to get them trained and everything. Depending on how far you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=766.1s	766.1	 take your training with your dog, it can take a good couple of years to really get them to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=770.2s	770.2	 understand everything you want them to listen to in a broad variety of contexts and settings. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=775.5s	775.5	 it doesn't mean you can't get amazing results in just a few weeks and really start to get them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=779.9s	779.9	 understanding you, but it probably will take longer than you're originally thinking to get your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=785.0s	785.0	 trained. And I tell you this because I really want your mindset to be the most patient possible. In
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=789.8s	789.8	 other words, you'll probably find that the slower you go with training your dog, the more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=793.9s	793.9	 methodical you are, the better results you're going to get long term. So right now you might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=799.0s	799.0	 notice that she's a little distracted. She's chewing on the grass and I'm calling her periodically.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=804.0s	804.0	 I'm really focused on getting rough drafts of all of her basic skills in a variety of circumstances.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=809.9s	809.9	 Kona, come. Good girl. Yeah. I mean, that's a good example. It wasn't a perfect come,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=817.4s	817.4	 when called, but she did come to me. So it's kind of a rough draft version. You see what I mean?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=821.7s	821.7	 Focus on really refining those skills over time. Kona. Yes. Good girl. You can see we have a long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=830.3s	830.3	 50 foot lead just to keep extra good control of her and give her a reasonable amount of freedom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=835.3s	835.3	 to explore this new place too. That was really good. I love that she came to me in this public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=839.8s	839.8	 environment. That's always a good sign. Puppies are living thinking beings. So don't expect linear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=845.7s	845.7	 progress either with them. In other words, they might really be excelling on a particular skill,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=850.0s	850.0	 but then all of a sudden, well, they start not doing as well on that skill as they once were.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=854.4s	854.4	 Potty training is a good example of this. It's normal for a puppy to say, have a few consecutive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=859.0s	859.0	 days of success, and then they might have accidents a few days in a row. That's all normal. So when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=864.0s	864.0	 that happens, be prepared to take a step back and repair the skill and walk them through the steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=869.9s	869.9	 a little more thoroughly so they have a better understanding of how you want them to behave.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=874.0s	874.0	 Now with a puppy, it can often be tempting to get frustrated with them when they're not behaving how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=878.6s	878.6	 we want them to behave. And I noticed a lot of people fall into the trap of blaming their dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=883.5s	883.5	 rather than taking accountability and saying, you know, maybe I could do something a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=887.3s	887.3	 better, or maybe I could break this down into smaller steps to help them understand. So really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=893.0s	893.0	 avoid falling into the trap of blaming your dog when they don't behave how you want them to behave.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=898.2s	898.2	 This is one of my golden rules when it comes to training dogs. Dogs learn best after exercise.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=905.3s	905.3	 See, when a dog is able to get their energy out, especially if it's in a structured way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=909.6s	909.6	 like fetch or even a long walk, they seem to be much more primed to absorb new concepts. So it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=915.8s	915.8	 a really good idea to exercise your dog before training them something new, you know, especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=920.9s	920.9	 things like leash walking or being calm in an exciting environment. So that's why I'll have an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=925.9s	925.9	 emphasis on exercising her and teaching her fetch because I think it really will accelerate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=931.8s	931.8	 her training progress overall. Now she's not perfect at fetch yet, but let's see how she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=936.8s	936.8	 with fetch training. And again, I'm trying to keep my expectations realistic here. I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=941.4s	941.4	 expecting a perfect fetch. I don't even care if she ignores it, but I just want to do some testing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=946.0s	946.0	 and see what this individual dog is like. So I could see squeaking it there. She looked at it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=953.6s	953.6	 but she's like, I want to go smell around instead. Let's see. Maybe she wants to play with this toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=957.8s	957.8	 Go get it. Nice. Come on, Coda. Good girl. Yeah. Good. Let's give her a little tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=968.2s	968.2	 because she likes that. Remember, you don't want to just take the toy from your dog when you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=971.4s	971.4	 playing fetch with them. You want to give them some enjoyment. Ah, there we go. Go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=976.4s	976.4	 If you've got an energetic dog, that doesn't mean there's something wrong with them. In fact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=980.1s	980.1	 that probably means they're a very well-bred dog with fantastic genetics. I mean, remember,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=984.7s	984.7	 we selected for dogs that had endless stamina, energy, and endurance over the last several
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=989.2s	989.2	 centuries. Now, many of us don't necessarily have a need for all of that energy, but we still have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=994.6s	994.6	 to meet those genetic needs. So especially those of you with higher energy dogs have a strong focus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=999.9s	999.9	 on creating structured ways to release that energy, preferably early in the day so that you can have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1005.7s	1005.7	 a more sane day. And I think you'll be very happy with the results that you get over time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1010.5s	1010.5	 So, so far, plan A is working very well. I'm getting come when called, I'm getting some basic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1015.9s	1015.9	 fetch out of her. And the reason I'm so thrilled and surprised is because I am in a new place. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1021.4s	1021.4	 I know from experience that the fastest way to cause a dog to be thrown off or act uncharacteristically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1027.1s	1027.1	 or stop paying attention to you is to change their surroundings. We've done so in dramatic fashion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1032.1s	1032.1	 here. And she's really adjusting and adapting very well. Kona here. Come. Come here. Wet nose,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1041.6s	1041.6	 sit. Good. Nice. Ah, that's great. That's so good. The fact that she is being this attentive in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1050.0s	1050.0	 environment. I mean, inertia wasn't this attentive in this environment. Next, be flexible. Your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1055.6s	1055.6	 training plan is rarely going to go exactly as you intend it to go. So you have to be prepared
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1061.7s	1061.7	 to make adjustments on the fly when you're training a dog and be able to work with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1066.2s	1066.2	 Maybe you had a plan to go into the city and take a walk with them, but you see that they're barking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1071.0s	1071.0	 and they're overwhelmed. Well, it might be a better job to sit off to the side and do a screensaver
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1075.6s	1075.6	 training lesson like we're doing today and just let them observe things from a more acceptable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1079.5s	1079.5	 distance where they don't feel as overwhelmed. There are a million examples of ways that you'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1084.4s	1084.4	 need to adjust your training expectations as time goes on. Just understand that that is completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1090.6s	1090.6	 normal and build that into your training strategy overall. Oh, real life. Leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1095.9s	1095.9	 See this. Leave it. Look at me here. Yes. Good girl. We've talked about dropping a treat and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1103.7s	1103.7	 saying, leave it like that. As I've said before, just because a dog leaves a treat alone, doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1108.9s	1108.9	 mean they're going to leave everything alone in the natural environment. So you're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1112.4s	1112.4	 encounter things like garbage where they're like, Oh, I don't think I have to leave that alone. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1115.8s	1115.8	 just have to leave the treat alone when I'm asked. So it's a good opportunity to stop and really zoom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1119.8s	1119.8	 in on those things and practice, leave it when the opportunity presents itself like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1124.7s	1124.7	 Kona come. Yes. Okay. I'm going to quit while I'm ahead on that one. So there I was able to get a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1131.0s	1131.0	 reluctant leave it and get her to come to me as I called her and she ran past the debris there. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1136.2s	1136.2	 good job girl. Let's see how she's doing on sit and down and things like that, that we've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1140.8s	1140.8	 working on. And let's see if she's able to do them out here. Sit. Yes. Got to sit there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1146.8s	1146.8	 Okay. Good. Let's try again. Let's do a sit and how about a lie down?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1156.1s	1156.1	 Wow. Really good. And on a windy day on top of that wind makes things challenging very often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1163.8s	1163.8	 because of all the scents that are coming off the water and everything else. Remember dogs really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1169.0s	1169.0	 experience the world through scent in a way that we just can't fathom or completely understand.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1174.4s	1174.4	 Sit. Down. Yes. Okay. Good girl. That was a nice lightweight training session for Kona. Now we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1184.4s	1184.4	 back in the house and we're going to let Kona and Inertia duke it out and play a little rough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1188.8s	1188.8	 right now, but their play just continues to get more and more confident every day. You remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1194.1s	1194.1	 Kona was initially very reserved with Inertia and now Inertia has met her match, I think,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1200.9s	1200.9	 but it's important for Kona to get this physical activity with another dog. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1205.0s	1205.0	 this is how dogs learn so much about one another, their social cues and how to use the appropriate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1210.7s	1210.7	 amount of force when playing. So I mean, you can see she's biting on her collar right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1214.9s	1214.9	 Inertia will probably let her know, Hey, don't bite me that hard. Well, the thing about Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1219.3s	1219.3	 is she's so super tolerant, but Inertia likes to put Kona in her place and her own way. All right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1224.5s	1224.5	 So the next thing I have planned for us training wise today is to teach Kona how to do the stairs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1231.0s	1231.0	 This is something I get a lot of requests for. I think it's a good way for her to learn how to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1235.4s	1235.4	 use her body. She's going to encounter stairs many times in her life. So why not get started now?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1241.2s	1241.2	 But just to establish Kona, if I say Kona, like you can see she appears to want to come up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1251.0s	1251.0	 but she's like, wait a minute. I don't know how to get up those things. Good girl. Very good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1257.1s	1257.1	 So I love the metaphor of teaching a dog to go upstairs. It's one step at a time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1263.9s	1263.9	 So let's see if we can get her on this one stair. Good job, Bright. You gotta do one stair before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1269.1s	1269.1	 you can do two. Here, get it. Good. Yes. Did you see that? Beyond the mechanics, you're teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1275.7s	1275.7	 your dog how to be more confident and how to encounter this world with a little more optimism,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1280.3s	1280.3	 perhaps. Yes. Good. You see that? That's good. I'm going to actually get over here behind her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1288.6s	1288.6	 Come here. Yeah. Good girl. So, hey, pretty good start. You can see it's a little awkward for us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1296.4s	1296.4	 Yes. Look at that. I'm just luring her here. Yes. Good girl. And I'm going to make sure I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1303.0s	1303.0	 here to protect her and even that she slips or gets uncertain. It might seem silly, but it really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1308.3s	1308.3	 is important to be extra safe when it comes to teaching your dog how to do stairs. Yes, she did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1315.2s	1315.2	 it. Good girl. Very good. And so we're going to encourage her to go. Yes. Good. Just giving her a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1322.8s	1322.8	 spot there. Yes. Good girl. Very good. And so you got to love that. I mean, her confidence is so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1330.6s	1330.6	 strong. Good work. All right. I think she's ready to go higher. I hadn't really intended to have her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1335.5s	1335.5	 go up the entire staircase, but she seems to really be catching on. So I don't see why we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1339.8s	1339.8	 wouldn't keep going. Yeah. Look at this. See, once they get it, they get it very often. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1348.2s	1348.2	 Kona. Wow. Wow. Okay. I didn't expect it to go this quickly. She's doing great. Kona.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1355.7s	1355.7	 Oh, okay. There she goes. And you can see how she's being awkward. Okay. Oh boy. I have awoken the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1362.9s	1362.9	 sleeping dragon. Can you make it all the way to the top? Kona. Yes. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1370.8s	1370.8	 She's thinking. She's like, all right, how do I move my legs to do this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1376.2s	1376.2	 Good job, girl. Look at her. Nice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1384.1s	1384.1	 Yeah. Good girl. You did it. Good job. Wonderful. But again, I do want to emphasize that's why this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1392.6s	1392.6	 is going to be important because we don't want her having access to this staircase unsupervised.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1397.9s	1397.9	 Certainly not in her time with me. If your puppy seems a little more nervous than Kona is, that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1402.3s	1402.3	 totally fine. Be content with them just looking at the stair or just going up one stair or even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1406.9s	1406.9	 two stairs or something like that. Kona's progress is really accelerating. I'm so proud of her. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1412.2s	1412.2	 for the rest of you get 50% off your first Pup Box when you use discount code Zach at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1416.9s	1416.9	 pupbox.com slash Zach. Be sure to follow us on Instagram, Facebook and TikTok and get both of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SjwxgcsFwo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=241&pp=iAQB&t=1422.9s	1422.9	 my books too. We'll see you guys in the next video.
