https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Ow! That's my hand. You bite too hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=4.0s	4.0	 I feel pretty good in introducing her to our senior dog, Indiana Jones.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=8.9s	8.9	 I'm Zach George. I'm a dog trainer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=10.8s	10.8	 Meet my new project, Kona.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=12.8s	12.8	 I've got just three weeks to train her and set her up for the most well-behaved life possible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=17.0s	17.0	 That means I need to work on the most common puppy issues like potty training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=20.3s	20.3	 how to actually pay attention, stopping things like play biting, chewing, separation anxiety,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=25.6s	25.6	 getting along with other animals, leash walking and teaching her everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=29.1s	29.1	 that a good dog needs to know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=30.7s	30.7	 Real dog training doesn't always go smoothly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 and that's why I'm going to show you every success and mistake
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=36.1s	36.1	 and how I work through all the most challenging parts of raising a new puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=39.9s	39.9	 Welcome to your new puppy survival guide.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=44.9s	44.9	 Good morning, guys. It's the beginning of day two.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 Hey, I mean, day one was good. It had its ups and downs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=51.4s	51.4	 but I can see we've got a lot to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 Day two is underway. Let's see what we can do today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=56.3s	56.3	 Kona's getting braver for sure, slowly but surely.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=59.9s	59.9	 And for those of you who have been following along with Inertia's series,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=63.0s	63.0	 Dog Training Experience, you'll know that we did pretty extensive socializing with other dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=67.0s	67.0	 and that seems to have paid off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=68.4s	68.4	 Before we can do too much training today, I think I'd like to get the two dogs playing together,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=72.4s	72.4	 maybe get some of their energy out, have some free play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=74.9s	74.9	 It's important to do a lot of this when you're training a puppy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=77.2s	77.2	 If you're just strict all the time, training isn't going to be as enjoyable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 For those of you that have a puppy, Pup Box is an awesome product
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=84.3s	84.3	 because they send you training supplies, treats, and toys based on your dog's specific age.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=90.5s	90.5	 So Kona is three months old. This is the three-month box.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=93.9s	93.9	 Let's see what we got here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=95.0s	95.0	 One of the things that really makes Pup Box different is you have this training guide,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=98.5s	98.5	 and it's very detailed because it's front and back,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=100.7s	100.7	 and it really zeros in on some of the most important things that you need to focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=105.0s	105.0	 for your dog at three months old in this case.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=107.4s	107.4	 I've actually seen this toy before. I can't believe they put this in the three-month box.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=111.2s	111.2	 And you can see how a toy like this has her attention immediately.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=114.8s	114.8	 You need things like this to engage your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=116.6s	116.6	 and better to play with a toy like this than your couch cushion, for example, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 Kona loves this toy, even though it's three times her size.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=123.7s	123.7	 So we found the thing that makes Kona brave. It's Fred the Flamingo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=127.0s	127.0	 What's cool about this toy in all seriousness is that you have a really nice tug texture here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=131.7s	131.7	 You can see how she just gravitates to that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=133.9s	133.9	 Plus, for a teething dog, you want plenty of things for them to be able to play with.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=138.2s	138.2	 This is a classic thing for puppies too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=140.1s	140.1	 When they're bored, I probably could have used this last night while she was crying,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=143.2s	143.2	 but you can put stuff like peanut butter in this Kong in the bottom right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=146.7s	146.7	 You can see, by the way, this peanut butter is specifically for dogs, which is nice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=150.5s	150.5	 You get a cool pup box treat pouch, some really good training treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=154.7s	154.7	 How about we keep all four feet on the ground?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=157.2s	157.2	 Good girl. There we go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=158.8s	158.8	 And of course, we get another really awesome chew here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=161.6s	161.6	 This is going to have a real dynamic texture as well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=164.0s	164.0	 All of you can get 50% off of your first pup box when you sign up for a multi-month subscription.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=168.8s	168.8	 Just go to pupbox.com slash Zach and her discount code, Zach.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=171.9s	171.9	 I'll have the information in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=174.4s	174.4	 I'm going to take her lead off right now since we're in a controlled environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=178.2s	178.2	 Look at her. I've got another toy. This also came from a pup box, by the way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=182.1s	182.1	 Good squeaker. Good, nice, tough toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=184.8s	184.8	 Something that's kind of fun that will also have an added benefit to her training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=189.6s	189.6	 is refining her fetch game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=192.4s	192.4	 Fetch is where you throw a toy. Your dog runs after it, picks it up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=196.0s	196.0	 brings it back to you, ideally in a straight line.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=198.4s	198.4	 Let's go promptly and eagerly awaits the next throw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=201.4s	201.4	 Fetch is great because it gives a dog an outlet in working with a human being.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=205.1s	205.1	 It gets a lot of energy out and it can make your overall training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=208.7s	208.7	 including puppy biting, unwanted jumping, and general hyperactivity,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=212.3s	212.3	 a lot smoother and a lot easier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=214.2s	214.2	 This may not be intuitive to you, but the first step to teaching a good fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=217.6s	217.6	 is exactly what we're doing here. Generating interest in the toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=220.5s	220.5	 and getting a good tug of war. And this is a superior tug of war for a 12-week-old dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=226.9s	226.9	 She really has a good grip on that. The more intense that tug is, the better.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=231.0s	231.0	 You might recall we were working on let go. Let's see how that's doing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=234.3s	234.3	 I'm just going to make the toy boring and see what happens here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=238.2s	238.2	 Yes, good. And then immediately when she lets go, I'm going to bring the toy back to life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=243.3s	243.3	 All you do to teach a dog to let go is simply make the toy boring,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=246.6s	246.6	 keep it where it's not easy to move.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=248.4s	248.4	 See how I'm doing my best to not let my hands move at all here?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=252.0s	252.0	 Yes, you can see the light bulb go off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=254.8s	254.8	 And then when she does let go, I'm not just going to throw it and make it boring.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=258.8s	258.8	 I want to bring it back to life because this is what dogs like.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 They like when you engage them with a tug of war.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=264.1s	264.1	 It's not as fun to them when you do this. And this is how we teach them to let go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=268.5s	268.5	 Pona. Yes, good. Even a distraction kind of worked there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=272.3s	272.3	 So there's more than one way to get the job done too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=275.4s	275.4	 A lot of people really try to bypass this step when teaching fetch.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=278.4s	278.4	 Remember tug of war is the first step because this drives their interest in the toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=283.9s	283.9	 And the more interested they are in the toy, the more likely they are to chase it endlessly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=288.5s	288.5	 I mean, look, that is a dog who is very interested in this toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=291.6s	291.6	 So I think we're ready for our first toss. I'm going to keep it short though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=295.3s	295.3	 because it's more important to me to get the fundamentals down right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=299.1s	299.1	 of her chasing after the toy and then bringing it back and hopefully letting go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=303.6s	303.6	 Then it is to just launch it as far as I can,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=306.4s	306.4	 because with a dog who's new to fetch, they can get distracted along the way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=310.0s	310.0	 Okay, go get it. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=313.1s	313.1	 And so right as she picks it up, look at that. I'm just going to run away from her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=317.2s	317.2	 Puppies, especially most dogs anyway, enjoy chasing you if you run away from them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=322.3s	322.3	 So that's kind of the general way that we're going to rely on teaching her to bring it back.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=328.0s	328.0	 Maybe clap your hands if your dog likes that. Good job. Good play tug when they get back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=333.2s	333.2	 to really keep the game extra exciting rather than arguing with them over dropping it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=338.2s	338.2	 Yes. Look at that. Let's see what happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=342.0s	342.0	 Come on. Yeah. Good girl. Good job. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=348.8s	348.8	 Yes. Ready? Look at how she's anticipating it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=352.4s	352.4	 You see that? She's acting like a border collie. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=357.8s	357.8	 We're going to run after that. Wow. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=364.7s	364.7	 Since she's doing so well, I'm tossing it a little bit farther here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 I'm not even having to run away from her. So far, she's really coming back pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=371.3s	371.3	 reliably here. Some dogs will take to playing fetch like this more than others. Don't be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=375.6s	375.6	 discouraged if your dog doesn't do this well, or if they do even better, be excited about that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 You want to be very conservative with a 12 week old dog on playing fetch. So you wouldn't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=383.4s	383.4	 to do this more than a few minutes at a time, two or three times a day. I'll tell you what,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=387.3s	387.3	 since she's doing so well, let's teach her the come around. There we go. Good. So right there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=392.7s	392.7	 I mean, it was as easy as that. Kona, come. Come on. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=398.0s	398.0	 Good girl. And I like so far how she's not playing keep away. A lot of dogs will do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=405.4s	405.4	 If your dog is playing keep away, just put them back on lead. That way you'll be in a position to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=409.4s	409.4	 prevent that behavior from getting more established. We do the come around in order just to teach our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=414.6s	414.6	 dog to run straight out rather than facing us and doing that awkward twist as they run. So I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=420.4s	420.4	 teaching a dog to do that when playing fetch. It's easy enough and it looks a little flashy too. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=425.3s	425.3	 Look at that. You can see we're getting a lot of energy out of this young lady. Good. Yeah, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=433.6s	433.6	 Now another thing you can do is you can use the two toy method in order to encourage your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=438.2s	438.2	 come back. We're trying to get the come around. Here we go. Go. Get Fred the flamingo. There's no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=446.4s	446.4	 harm in that, but I do definitely like to make sure dog understands the concept of let go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=450.5s	450.5	 even when there's only one toy. That was a really good fetch. Go. You might notice I'm not saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=457.2s	457.2	 things like come around or anything like that. She doesn't really understand the concept yet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=466.4s	466.4	 Good job, girl. And I think we'll give her a break right there. Nice job. Good way to start off the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=471.0s	471.0	 day. Look at this. You seen this? Ouch. Look at that. Look at those teeth marks. You bite too hard.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=477.9s	477.9	 Ow. That's my hand. So she definitely needs to work on her aim. That's something you'll want to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=483.6s	483.6	 careful with with any dog learning tug of war. It's important to remember all dogs were created to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=488.8s	488.8	 work in harmony with human beings, but very few of us use our dogs for their original purpose,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=493.8s	493.8	 like hunting or herding. So fetch really gives them that outlet. And I think that's an important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=498.5s	498.5	 thing about it. And that's why you should prioritize teaching it. It's also a pretty easy game for most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=502.6s	502.6	 dogs to pick up. I'll also say there are some dogs who really aren't that interested in fetch,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=507.3s	507.3	 still give it a really good effort over the first year of training to really see if you can ignite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=512.3s	512.3	 their interest. But it is true that at the end of the day, some dogs just may not be as interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=516.8s	516.8	 in playing fetch. And that's okay too. Settle. There we go. This is another benefit to teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=523.5s	523.5	 your dog fetch here. I mean, you see how she just went into that nice, natural settle, settle or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=528.2s	528.2	 relax as we talked about earlier, pretty much the same thing or taught contextually more than in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=534.0s	534.0	 dedicated training sessions. So here she'll learn the concept of settle over time. If we tell her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=539.2s	539.2	 settle as she naturally goes into that relaxed lie down position where her mindset is such that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=545.0s	545.0	 going to zone out and maybe she'll decide to sleep now. So let's talk about potty training for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=550.0s	550.0	 little bit. Remember that dogs aren't born knowing where it's okay to do their business versus where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=556.0s	556.0	 it's not okay. This is very much a human thing that we have to teach them. Extra patience is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=561.6s	561.6	 required when you're potty training a new dog. The best way to set yourself up for success with potty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=566.0s	566.0	 training is to make sure that you are a master at controlling the environment. And part of managing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=571.2s	571.2	 your dog's environment is being really good at supervising them. Now I can tell you this from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=576.0s	576.0	 experience. Most people think they're pretty good at supervising their dog. After all, it is a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=581.3s	581.3	 easier to supervise a 10 to 12 week old puppy than it is say a 14 to 18 week old puppy. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=586.8s	586.8	 because they tend to get smarter and probably more importantly, they tend to get a lot faster
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=591.4s	591.4	 and sneakier and get away from you the holter that they get. But this catches a lot of people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=595.6s	595.6	 off guard. So that's why you're going to see Kona unleash much of the time. This is a 10 foot lead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=600.5s	600.5	 so that she has room to roam. And if I'm really supervising her and I know every move that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=605.5s	605.5	 making, I'll take her off lead. For example, when we're letting her play with inertia, if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=609.6s	609.6	 really good at supervising your dog, you'll see those accidents coming before they happen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=615.0s	615.0	 And you'll also probably be reminded that it's important to take them out every 30 minutes to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=620.0s	620.0	 an hour or so for a young puppy. That's when you're at home. Obviously, most puppies can make it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=624.8s	624.8	 overnight at a certain age. But as you saw with Kona last night, I had to let her out a few times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=630.1s	630.1	 Remember, though, dogs don't have accidents in the house out of spite. They just have to go potty.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=634.6s	634.6	 Think of it like this, though. The overall goal when you're potty training a dog is to teach them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=639.0s	639.0	 that your house is their house. See, a dog might reason, for example, that, okay, we spend most of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=645.6s	645.6	 our time here in the living room. But if I really have to go, maybe I could sneak upstairs into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=650.1s	650.1	 guest room and go potty up there. After all, I never really spend any time there. It seems that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=654.8s	654.8	 dogs instinctively don't like to go potty in a space that they view as their home. So you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=661.1s	661.1	 to slowly show them that the whole house is their house. That's why we start off really small. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=666.5s	666.5	 can see that we have this setup over here. We have a crate and an exercise pen kind of combined
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=671.3s	671.3	 together here in order to get her potty trained in this area first. The idea is that she doesn't go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=677.1s	677.1	 potty over here. We have a potty pad out there just because she's still learning potty training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=682.0s	682.0	 So if she does go, it's damage control. But ideally, I don't ever want her going in here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=686.5s	686.5	 I prefer her to go exclusively outside or on a pad if I put it out specifically for that reason.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=692.0s	692.0	 So right now, Kona is learning that this little piece of the house is where she can view as her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=697.6s	697.6	 primary home. And once she makes that connection, it's unlikely that she'll have accidents in here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=702.9s	702.9	 unless she really has to go. But it's my job to make sure that she doesn't get to that point.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=707.2s	707.2	 Then over time, we're going to show her that this whole bottom level of our house is a place that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=711.3s	711.3	 she can view as her home. And hopefully she'll have minimal accidents. One of the most common
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 mistakes that people make is their dog is doing good in the crate or the exercise pen area, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=720.4s	720.4	 then they just let them out and assume everything is done. That's a big leap. You want to keep the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=724.9s	724.9	 steps smaller than that. So if Kona was my own dog, for example, after she was comfortable with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=729.8s	729.8	 being down here and not having accidents, I would slowly begin to introduce her to our master bedroom,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=734.7s	734.7	 for example. But I certainly wouldn't let her have access to the whole house right away. In other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=739.2s	739.2	 words, I would take several months to introduce her to a house like this. I'm sure we'll encounter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=744.2s	744.2	 more examples of potty training as we move on in this series. But the bottom line is control your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=749.0s	749.0	 dog's environment, supervise them when they aren't in a tightly controlled environment, and take them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=753.6s	753.6	 out very often. That is the recipe for potty training any dog. You might remember yesterday,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=759.2s	759.2	 we introduced Inertia and Kona, and they've been doing pretty well. I feel pretty good in introducing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=764.6s	764.6	 her to our senior dog, Indiana Jones, right now. Indy isn't the type of dog that always wants to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=770.0s	770.0	 play with an energetic puppy, but she's very tolerant, and I think it's going to be a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=774.0s	774.0	 experience for Kona to meet a new adult dog. I'm gonna take her off leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=784.5s	784.5	 Hey, what's up, good girl? You see Kona? You can see Indy's like, okay, another dog, whatever. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=791.6s	791.6	 met many a dog in her life, so it's just a little excited. She's like, I know, that's a puppy. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=799.6s	799.6	 just kind of hilarious to see how Indiana doesn't care anything about Kona at all. She's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=805.1s	805.1	 whatever. Kona's doing well, though. Indy's the kind of dog who will just let Kona check her out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=814.0s	814.0	 This is exactly what we need, actually. This hopefully will give Kona more confidence when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=818.8s	818.8	 encountering other dogs, and she's at such an impressionable age that these positive experiences
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=824.3s	824.3	 like this really go a long way for young dogs in particular. You want to play with the puppy?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=829.6s	829.6	 Being sweet to the puppy, aren't you? Hey. So I'd say this is a pretty successful first meeting for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=836.2s	836.2	 both of these guys. And even though they're not doing too much together here, I mean, remember,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=839.9s	839.9	 socialization isn't just about dogs playing together. It's about them learning overall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=844.0s	844.0	 social skills with other dogs, too. So it's a great reminder to Kona that, hey, not every dog you meet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=849.6s	849.6	 is going to result in a rambunctious play session either. You might notice here how we have introduced
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=854.3s	854.3	 Kona to both Inertia and Indy, but we've done so separately. Just to be extra thorough and not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=859.8s	859.8	 overwhelm Kona, it wouldn't necessarily be the worst thing to introduce them at the same time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=864.8s	864.8	 but I generally like to introduce dogs to new dogs one at a time as I'm getting to know them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=870.5s	870.5	 Finally, a dog that likes me more than Breeze so far. That'll change, but hey, I know she comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=877.7s	877.7	 to me all the time. Hello. Oh my goodness. Oh man. So what about puppy biting? Oh geez. Kona isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=887.7s	887.7	 the worst puppy biter I've ever seen, but she is not the most gentle puppy biter I've ever seen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=892.8s	892.8	 either. She's like kind of right in the middle. One of my game plans with puppy biting when she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=897.0s	897.0	 does get in that playful mood and starts biting my flesh or clothes or whatever is to redirect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=901.6s	901.6	 her attention onto a toy that she really likes. Biting us isn't always as bad as it sounds. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=906.8s	906.8	 also important that our dogs learn to bite with the appropriate force. In other words, very gently.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=912.6s	912.6	 So yes, easy. Good. Good. That's gentle. Very good. So there's a nice gentle bite. I don't mind the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=921.3s	921.3	 mouthing so much. It's important for her to learn that. And then if she wants to bite hard, I can be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=926.1s	926.1	 like, get this. You can bite hard on this to give her that outlet. As we discussed earlier, that can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=930.5s	930.5	 be very satisfying for a dog to bite hard on something and play tug. So in other words, you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=935.2s	935.2	 teaching them, look, if you bite hard on me, that's no good, but you can bite hard on this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=939.5s	939.5	 And you've got to be very consistent because they're teething. They're still learning what's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=943.8s	943.8	 okay to bite and what's not. Indy's looking a little more playful now. Puppy biting is one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=949.1s	949.1	 those things that feels like it can just take forever and ever to get under control. But honestly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=954.5s	954.5	 it's just a few weeks that you have to be really tolerant. Another thing you can do if you don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=959.2s	959.2	 have a toy or you're not in the mood to play with your dog for whatever reason, you can always pull
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=963.5s	963.5	 out a treat, you know, and give them something to do. I haven't really worked with Kona on sit yet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=969.5s	969.5	 Let me see if I can lure her into a sit. We'll talk more about this later, but very good. Good job, girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=977.0s	977.0	 And so now you can see she's, well, there's still a little biting. I thought she was going to lick,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=982.5s	982.5	 but it's a much softer bite. In other words, when you give a dog a treat, they kind of go into food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=987.1s	987.1	 mode and by nature, they tend to bite softer, which is good. That's not the reason we're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=992.6s	992.6	 a treat. The reason we're offering a treat in exchange for a skill like sit is to get her mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=998.1s	998.1	 off of the rambunctious playing and more onto, hey, listen to my direction instead. Kona. Kona.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1007.0s	1007.0	 Good. I love how she's responding to her name. We'll go into more depth on Cumblin called later
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1013.2s	1013.2	 on. One thing at a time, it's so tempting to just teach everything at one time, but you don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1017.4s	1017.4	 to overwhelm your puppy or your dog training students either. It's time for bed. And yes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1022.9s	1022.9	 I'm taking you guys along with me. Night one was pretty tough. Hopefully night two will be a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1028.6s	1028.6	 bit smoother for Kona. Okay. I think we're going to try something a little bit different tonight.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1033.4s	1033.4	 I'm going to attempt to have her in the crate because I noticed that she's been sleeping in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1038.4s	1038.4	 the crate without the extended area a lot more willingly today. I feel like she's a lot more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1044.1s	1044.1	 adjusted now. So we're going to see how she does in the crate tonight. Night two. All right. Ready?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1059.2s	1059.2	 I'm going to give her a few treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1064.3s	1064.3	 By the way, check her out. I mean, look, she's being pretty good. Yeah, this is her first time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1068.8s	1068.8	 in the crate. So I'm hopeful that this is going to reduce the odds of an accident by having her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1074.0s	1074.0	 be in a slightly smaller area. And hopefully her separation anxiety won't be so bad because I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1079.0s	1079.0	 going to be sleeping down here again, just to make sure she does well. Hopefully she'll do a lot better.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1085.6s	1085.6	 Okay. A little anxious. Look at that. She will probably be a little vocal. Let's see. Right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1097.0s	1097.0	 it's 8 27. We'll see how long she goes before she acts up again. Well, it's been quite a while. Now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1106.1s	1106.1	 she's doing pretty amazing. Much, much better than last night so far, though. I don't want to jinx it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1112.7s	1112.7	 I still have a whole night to get through. All right. So 9 45 PM. We just had another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1121.2s	1121.2	 brief outburst. It looks like she's quickly settled down. What's great is if we can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1127.0s	1127.0	 her comfortable with the crate. It's a puppy proofed area and it's a place that she can feel safe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1133.2s	1133.2	 Most dogs come to really like their crate and prefer to be in it. Relax.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1138.4s	1138.4	 What a good girl. This is a dramatic improvement from last night. It's not perfect, but at this rate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1153.9s	1153.9	 we'll be there in no time. But I imagine we'll hit a plateau at some point. So we'll cross that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1159.4s	1159.4	 bridge when we get to it. I just took her out. Just one last time to make extra sure she was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1166.4s	1166.4	 being good. Let her have some water one more time. Okay. It's 10 30 now, almost 11 o'clock.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1180.8s	1180.8	 And she's sound asleep.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1182.4s	1182.4	 So it's a 2 27 AM.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1186.4s	1186.4	 This guy done letting her out. She peed. She had some water. We're gonna see if she'll go back to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1192.8s	1192.8	 sleep. Me too. Much better night so far, though. All right. She's calming down and relaxing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1204.2s	1204.2	 Only what she's thinking right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1205.9s	1205.9	 All right. It is morning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1210.6s	1210.6	 And she made it just the one break much better. So I'm gonna let her out right now. Good job, girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1216.8s	1216.8	 The separation anxiety is improving. Let's see what we can do. Keep going. It looks like Kona
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1225.9s	1225.9	 is ready for her first nap of the day. I think we're doing pretty good on keeping her satisfied.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1231.2s	1231.2	 So that's pretty awesome. I thought this would be a pretty good opportunity to go over some of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1237.2s	1237.2	 core puppy supplies or dog supplies you need for a new dog. Now, of course, you can get more than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1242.7s	1242.7	 what we're going to cover today. But these are the things that I think are really important.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1246.0s	1246.0	 So we're going to go ahead and get her out of the way. And then we're going to go ahead and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1251.9s	1251.9	 Now, of course, you can get more than what we're going to cover today. But these are the things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1254.8s	1254.8	 that I think are really important that every dog really needs to have. I mean, naturally,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1259.4s	1259.4	 you need things like food and water bowls. So I won't spend too much time on that. I kind of like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1263.6s	1263.6	 metal bowls like this and really durable plastic bowls that are very easy to clean. I mean, they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1268.9s	1268.9	 just last forever. It's a good idea to go a little above and beyond, I think, for your food and water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1273.6s	1273.6	 bowls. I've had these at least 10 years and they still look brand new. So I like these a lot. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1277.8s	1277.8	 this is in no particular order. And we're going to talk more about like tooth brushing and grooming,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1282.0s	1282.0	 but some grooming supplies you need, obviously dog toothpaste, which is different than human
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1286.0s	1286.0	 toothpaste, a dog toothbrush, a nail clipper or a Dremel. We tend to use a Dremel most of the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1292.1s	1292.1	 So that's your decision, but something to keep their nails reasonably short. It takes a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1296.4s	1296.4	 more time to introduce a Dremel like this, but it's a little more comfortable for dogs, even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1300.9s	1300.9	 it takes a little bit of time to introduce. So you know, if it's within your budget, I'd recommend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1304.6s	1304.6	 you get one of those. Poop bags are important. I usually will just put three or four of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1308.9s	1308.9	 in my pocket when I wake up every day. So I have them like never leave the house without poop bags,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1314.8s	1314.8	 if you've got a puppy. As far as leashes go, I generally recommend you have a variety of leashes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1322.1s	1322.1	 I guess if you had to get one leash, a 10 foot is probably a good option because it gives you a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1327.8s	1327.8	 of options. I've been using that for these first couple of days. It's a really good compromise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1331.8s	1331.8	 between giving a dog some freedom while also having tight control. And you can also always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1337.0s	1337.0	 shorten it by grabbing it. But in general, I would say it's a good idea to have a six foot leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1342.0s	1342.0	 a 10 foot leash, a 20 foot lead, and a 50 foot lead. This is a 50 foot one here. I mean, if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1350.0s	1350.0	 really trying to go all out and have as many options as possible. This is biothane too. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1354.4s	1354.4	 we've just recently switched to these. I love it. I like this a lot more than the fabric. It's a real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1359.3s	1359.3	 kind of plasticky feeling, but it cleans up so easily. The other ones get gross pretty quick.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1364.0s	1364.0	 So I found myself going through them a lot. It's also safer for leash burns as well. So really great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1370.2s	1370.2	 tool. Back to grooming. Of course, having a brush like this is good. I like these to introduce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1375.5s	1375.5	 brushing to instead of a slicker brush, but I'm not a professional groomer. So there may be some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1379.5s	1379.5	 advantages to different types of brushes. And a dog like Kona is definitely going to need a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1384.1s	1384.1	 grooming in her life. Carabiners are a really nice dog training hack because you can put them on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1390.7s	1390.7	 end of any leash really, and then clip them to you or clip them to something else. I like having that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1395.9s	1395.9	 redundancy. You never know, a leash could slip out of your hands. Some extreme event could happen that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1400.9s	1400.9	 catches you off guard. So having this like clip to your belt is a really good way to have that extra
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1406.7s	1406.7	 safety measure in place. I mean, these are like two bucks each and they give you incredible peace
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1411.0s	1411.0	 of mind. So it's nice having these carabiners. Having treats with you every waking hour of the day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1416.4s	1416.4	 is very important when you're training a new dog. I mean, you can see I have them right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1420.4s	1420.4	 So I'm always ready to jump into a training session if I need to, or if I need to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1424.8s	1424.8	 Kona to go into the crate voluntarily, I can just reach in, throw a treat in there, have her follow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1429.5s	1429.5	 it in. So a good treat pouch is a good idea. This one came with our pup box, which is cool.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1435.2s	1435.2	 Classic rope toy. This one has some wear on it right here, but you know, it's still in good shape.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1440.0s	1440.0	 Getting a few good quality rope toys is good. This is not a chew toy. I would keep this away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1444.8s	1444.8	 from your dog unless you're directly playing tug of war or fetch with it. This can be like a $50 bill
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1451.0s	1451.0	 to a dog, like a five second game of tug. They'll like do anything for that. So you can really use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1456.3s	1456.3	 it as a reward in many cases, as well as a ball. Dogs love tennis balls and I really like these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1463.4s	1463.4	 squeaky tennis balls. Those are cool. It's an extra way to get their attention onto the ball.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1467.4s	1467.4	 Having a variety of things for your dog to chew on is really important and having things with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1471.7s	1471.7	 different textures is also going to be advantageous. Sometimes they want something more firm,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1475.6s	1475.6	 other times they want something more soft. It really depends on their mood when they're teething.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1479.4s	1479.4	 Of course, you're going to need a collar with an ID tag on it. That is the primary function
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1483.9s	1483.9	 of a collar is to carry their ID tags or their rabies tags. When I'm really engaged in training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1489.6s	1489.6	 a dog, I prefer to use a harness to actually manage them so that I don't have tension around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1494.1s	1494.1	 their neck and I can really focus on just kind of keeping them stable without having any unwanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1499.6s	1499.6	 side effects. Puppies can be crazy and not so bright sometimes, so they could potentially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1503.8s	1503.8	 injure themselves just by being erratic. I've been really enjoying the Blue 9 Balance harnesses. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1508.4s	1508.4	 like that they give you a nice broad range of motion for your dog. Having some type of way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1513.4s	1513.4	 contain your dog and manage them, like we've been discussing and will continue to discuss,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1518.4s	1518.4	 is really important. So you see we've got the crate and playpen area over here because it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1523.6s	1523.6	 impossible to focus on a dog 24 hours a day, so making sure they have a really solid puppy-proofed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1529.2s	1529.2	 area to exist in when you can't tend to them is vital. And speaking of puppy-proofing, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1535.1s	1535.1	 having gates throughout the house or anything else that you need to in order to keep them in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1540.0s	1540.0	 a particular area. Here, for example, upstairs is off limits for Kona, so we have the gate right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1545.5s	1545.5	 here. And of course, one really great way to make sure you have lots of great monthly training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1549.5s	1549.5	 supplies is to get a Pup Box because they really do send you those supplies based on your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1553.7s	1553.7	 specific age, along with age-appropriate training advice too, like we talked about. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1558.0s	1558.0	 have a link in the description where you can get 50% off of your first Pup Box when you sign up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1562.2s	1562.2	 for a multi-month subscription. Go to pupbox.com slash Zach and use discount code ZACH. And as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1568.2s	1568.2	 usual, subscribe to my channel, follow us on Instagram, TikTok, and Facebook. Those links
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1572.4s	1572.4	 will be below. And check out my book too if you really like having that written guide to everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1578.0s	1578.0	 possible in dog training. We'll see you in the next video where hopefully Kona will be ready to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWUpCjTd9tY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=247&pp=iAQB&t=1582.3s	1582.3	 do some serious training. See you next time.
