https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Remember when inertia was resource guarding we're going to see how she's doing today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=3.6s	3.6	 And I'm going to show you what to do if your dog is a resource garter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=7.0s	7.0	 Or you want to try to prevent them from ever becoming one. I'm Zach George. I train dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=12.4s	12.4	 This is my new dog and I'm gonna show you how I trained her from day one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=16.4s	16.4	 Things definitely won't always go smoothly you can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere subscribe and hit the bell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=23.6s	23.6	 Notification so you never miss an episode when you put into motion an approach based on love and respect your results will forever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=29.9s	29.9	 Remain in motion. This is inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=36.9s	36.9	 Have you ever found training your dog to be difficult at times?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=40.4s	40.4	 It's important that you have everything you need when you're training your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=43.7s	43.7	 By the way, this is more than just a box because with every purchase you make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=49.1s	49.1	 PepFlo gives a bowl of food to a pet in need things that we routinely need for training our dogs are great toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=55.9s	55.9	 Treats and high-quality food is a must
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=58.9s	58.9	 PepFlo has all of that and they do this magical thing where they make your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=63.5s	63.5	 Magically appear at your doorstep without any effort on your part at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=67.7s	67.7	 I'm gonna have a link in the description go to that link select your favorite dog food then tell PepFlo to ship it to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 Every three weeks or however often you'd like it shipped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=76.0s	76.0	 You'll get $10 off your first three automatic shipments to by entering my special code Zach 30 at checkout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=83.9s	83.9	 Resource guarding is where your dog becomes protective of something it commonly involves food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 But dogs can guard toys they can guard their bed or any number of things from day one with inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=94.4s	94.4	 I knew that resource guarding could be an issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=96.4s	96.4	 I think it's pretty natural for dogs, especially inexperienced dogs to want to protect what they have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=102.2s	102.2	 There's nothing intuitive about letting someone take something away from you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=105.9s	105.9	 So we literally have to teach them that they shouldn't guard things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=109.5s	109.5	 And so I tried my best to be really proactive about this starting when inertia was about eight weeks old
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=115.3s	115.3	 I want to get her really comfortable with me going in her food bowl taking it away giving it back to prevent resource guarding issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=122.1s	122.1	 In the future nonetheless we saw two minor instances of this resource guarding behavior with inertia as she was growing up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=128.3s	128.3	 Let's look back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=129.3s	129.3	 There was one instance during one of our resource guarding practice sessions that we were doing with a bone where inertia got a little protective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=137.0s	137.0	 That was actually the first time I had ever seen her display any of this behavior at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=141.6s	141.6	 A while later there was one instance where inertia got a little protective of a snowball
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=146.8s	146.8	 Basically shaved ice with chicken broth that she was eating when my wife Brie got close to her face with the camera
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=152.5s	152.5	 I continue to test and practice with her periodically but today we're going to give her a big test and see how she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=160.0s	160.0	 Also keep in mind I detail how to deal with resource guarding in both of my books
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=164.6s	164.6	 I'll have links in the description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=166.7s	166.7	 So over time I've learned that inertia is not the type of dog who resource guards her regular food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=171.3s	171.3	 But she's become protective of special items like bones or other treats twice before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=175.9s	175.9	 Let's recreate our first ever instance where inertia got a little protective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=180.4s	180.4	 Which was with an animal bone during one of our routine resource guarding practice exercises
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=185.3s	185.3	 And the exercises we're going to cover right now are the same whether you're working on being proactive and preventing resource guarding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=191.7s	191.7	 Or your dog already does resource guard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=194.3s	194.3	 The idea is to not put your dog in a position to snap at you while guarding something like a bone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=200.4s	200.4	 If your dog is a resource guard or you think they'll get protective if you go right up there and take it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=205.3s	205.3	 You've no doubt experienced the stress of well how do I get that thing away from my dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=209.8s	209.8	 Because he or she can't be behaving that way right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=212.3s	212.3	 So I found that the most practical way to separate your dog from something like that is to use a real high value piece of meat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=219.1s	219.1	 Something that's even better than the thing they're likely to guard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=222.4s	222.4	 Let me show you what I mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=223.3s	223.3	 This is what you would do in the case where your dog isn't yet trained and you really have to get it away from them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=228.9s	228.9	 So in this case I'm using real chicken putting it on the ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=233.0s	233.0	 So in this case inertia knows how to stay so I can say stay and then I can go over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=239.2s	239.2	 And pick up the thing that she was guarding right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=241.5s	241.5	 The point of luring her away with a meat like this is that it creates a great association
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=246.1s	246.1	 With relinquishing whatever it is that she's possessive of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=249.3s	249.3	 And I also wanted to know that sometimes she has a chance of getting the item back too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=252.9s	252.9	 By the way it's a good idea to do this type of training when your dog is not hungry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 If your dog is hangry that's probably going to complicate things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=261.4s	261.4	 I want to make sure that I can get inertia to come to me even when she's into the bone like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 Without having to lure her away I'd like to think we're past that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=268.8s	268.8	 So let's check up on that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=270.3s	270.3	 Inertia come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=275.1s	275.1	 Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=276.4s	276.4	 At this point I'm able to get inertia's attention off of the resource
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=279.6s	279.6	 He is coming to me willingly all this is going well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=282.1s	282.1	 But what if I find myself in a position where I just have to get to the item quick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=286.0s	286.0	 First I want to make sure that I can go up to her get her attention on me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=289.6s	289.6	 And feel confident that she's not likely to guard the bone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=292.8s	292.8	 I'm going to do this real slowly just to make sure it goes well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=295.5s	295.5	 So I'm going to be armed with some real chicken here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=298.8s	298.8	 Look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 Very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=302.2s	302.2	 And right now I'm looking at her body language
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=304.1s	304.1	 She doesn't look like she's trying to guard it or anything like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=307.0s	307.0	 I'm able to get her attention on to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=309.2s	309.2	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=310.3s	310.3	 I'm able to touch the bone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=311.8s	311.8	 She didn't try to snap at me or anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=315.1s	315.1	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=315.9s	315.9	 Very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=316.9s	316.9	 I'm being pretty methodical here to give you an idea of the small steps that you should take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=320.8s	320.8	 You know make sure your dog's okay with you doing that before you just go in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=323.9s	323.9	 Yank it and put it away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=326.4s	326.4	 You can see look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=328.7s	328.7	 She's reacting very appropriately and civilized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=332.1s	332.1	 You can see with a big animal bone like this she is no longer at least so far
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=335.9s	335.9	 Very possessive or likely to guard this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 This is why it's important to set up artificial exercises like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=342.0s	342.0	 I mean if this were something dangerous like a cooked chicken wing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=344.9s	344.9	 I wouldn't really be able to give her that kind of item back in the real world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=347.9s	347.9	 But an item like this I can give her back for short periods of time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=351.0s	351.0	 And while I'm supervising her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=352.3s	352.3	 So you need to take time to proactively create a good association with having good things taken away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=357.7s	357.7	 And we've been doing this type of training periodically throughout inertia's life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=361.3s	361.3	 Don't overlook training like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=362.8s	362.8	 It's a really good idea for preventing resource guarding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=366.1s	366.1	 All right so inertia's really into the bone right now more than she's been all day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=370.0s	370.0	 I'm gonna do it without a treat this time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=371.7s	371.7	 Inertia come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=374.2s	374.2	 Come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=376.6s	376.6	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=380.1s	380.1	 Here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=381.3s	381.3	 Okay go get it all right so no treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=383.4s	383.4	 I'm actually going to use the bone as a reward letting her have access to it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=386.8s	386.8	 Some ways to tell if your dog is likely to guard a resource
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=390.6s	390.6	 Are to see how they behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=391.9s	391.9	 Do they become real stiff?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=393.5s	393.5	 Do they bare their teeth?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=395.0s	395.0	 Do they growl?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=396.0s	396.0	 Do they generally act very protective over the item?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=398.9s	398.9	 Okay so she's great with the bone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=401.1s	401.1	 But her most significant guarding outburst was with my wife Brie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=405.3s	405.3	 When inertia was eating a doggy snowball
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=407.7s	407.7	 Today we made our own homemade version of a snowball
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=410.7s	410.7	 Which is really just shaved ice and chicken broth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=413.4s	413.4	 So let's see how she behaves when my wife Brie goes through these steps with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=417.9s	417.9	 So we'll give her a chance to get into it here just like she was before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=421.0s	421.0	 Okay I'll take the camera
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=423.0s	423.0	 We're gonna create a trail away from the chicken broth and ice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=428.1s	428.1	 Good and then yeah another trail good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=435.0s	435.0	 Give her one more piece maybe ask her to lie down and stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=438.0s	438.0	 Lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=439.9s	439.9	 Stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=440.5s	440.5	 Now come over and pick it up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=446.2s	446.2	 That's great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=448.2s	448.2	 I took your chicken broth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=449.7s	449.7	 That's good and now maybe just give it back to her let her know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=452.5s	452.5	 Okay I'll give it back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=454.3s	454.3	 Okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=456.9s	456.9	 Okay you can have it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=458.5s	458.5	 And walk away and let her we'll see if she gets back into it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=462.5s	462.5	 She goes right back into it what a fun treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=465.1s	465.1	 This time just go ahead and call her and reward her when she comes back to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=468.8s	468.8	 Inertia come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=472.8s	472.8	 Good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=473.5s	473.5	 Yeah go ahead and give her a piece of chicken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=476.1s	476.1	 And then even tell her go ahead you can go back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=477.9s	477.9	 Okay you can go have your chicken broth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=479.7s	479.7	 All done okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=483.4s	483.4	 So that's real good now just walk right up to her get her attention on you and go slow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=488.2s	488.2	 You know if you see her start to freeze up we'll take a step back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=490.8s	490.8	 Because the ultimate goal is not to push her that far obviously
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=493.4s	493.4	 Mm-hmm treat or no treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=495.7s	495.7	 I would say use a treat since we're doing a science experiment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=498.7s	498.7	 Inertia look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=500.9s	500.9	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=501.2s	501.2	 Maybe even have her lie down and stay just to be extra cautious right just to be methodical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=507.7s	507.7	 Stay I'm gonna take your chicken broth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=510.1s	510.1	
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=511.3s	511.3	 Nice real good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=512.4s	512.4	 I took it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=513.4s	513.4	 Okay good give it right back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=514.9s	514.9	 Good girl you can have it back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=517.4s	517.4	 Excellent job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=518.9s	518.9	 I remember when she was a puppy and she had the other snowball that she got a little protective of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=524.5s	524.5	 The way that I noticed that she was feeling that way was just like her face kind of tense up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=529.6s	529.6	 Do you know what I mean?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=530.6s	530.6	 Right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=531.0s	531.0	 And I feel like she has a very relaxed face today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=533.4s	533.4	 Like I honestly feel like she looks a lot more chill about us just taking her food and giving it back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=537.7s	537.7	 Whereas before she would get this look like what are you gonna do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=541.3s	541.3	 Don't take it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=542.0s	542.0	 What happens if you just go in and take it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=543.5s	543.5	 Let's see what happens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=544.8s	544.8	 I think she'll be fine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=545.6s	545.6	 I'm gonna take this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=546.5s	546.5	 This simulates maybe a young child runs up to your dog and tries to take something away from them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=551.1s	551.1	 It's important for them to have some training and know how to behave in that particular context
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=555.1s	555.1	 And just to reiterate too all of the training in the world doesn't mean that your dog will never
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=560.9s	560.9	 Resource guard you always need to use common sense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=563.3s	563.3	 And even though I was proactive with it with inertia she still did it a few times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=567.3s	567.3	 And so far we've done really well working through it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=569.5s	569.5	 But I'll continue to maintain this behavior and make sure that she behaves appropriately around things like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=575.5s	575.5	 Get your supplies and get $10 off your first three automatic shipments of your dog's food from pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=581.3s	581.3	 By entering my special code zac30 at checkout I'll have a link below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=585.3s	585.3	 Subscribe to this channel follow us on instagram and tiktok for the most recent updates on how a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=590.6s	590.6	 Nurse's training is going and get a copy of my books too all of those links will be below in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRRF-veXdRU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=261&pp=iAQB&t=595.3s	595.3	 The description we'll see you next time
