https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 In this episode, I'm going to show you what we did over the last 12 months to go from this to this. Stay!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=8.3s	8.3	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=14.6s	14.6	 Things definitely won't always go smoothly. You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 Subscribe and hit the bell notification so you never miss an episode.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=23.5s	23.5	 When you put into motion an approach based on love and respect, your results will forever remain in motion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=29.3s	29.3	 This is Inertia. Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=35.4s	35.4	 Stay is one of the most important skills dogs have to learn and if you want your dog to learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 effectively, you have to find a diet that works for them. Let's talk about Solid Gold. It's one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=44.5s	44.5	 of my absolute favorite brands. Feeding your dog a high quality nutritious food can make a big
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=49.2s	49.2	 difference in their training. Solid Gold foods are different though because you get really great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 ingredients. In this formula, for example, instead of filler grains like corn, wheat, or soy, they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 use higher quality grains like brown rice, pearl, barley, and oatmeal. They make next-level
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=63.1s	63.1	 supplements too. Our favorite is the sea meal. They have two forms of this. You can use the powder.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=67.6s	67.6	 This is a superfood supplement right here and they also have the soft chews and you know what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=72.1s	72.1	 the secret is? They don't even know these are good for them. So I make Inertia do a cool trick before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=76.2s	76.2	 I'll give her one of these. Okay, you can have it. Told you she loves them. Solid Gold has an entire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=82.3s	82.3	 line of awesome products. They have dry dog food, wet food, the supplements we talked about, even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=87.4s	87.4	 human-grade bone broth. To see Solid Gold's deal of the week, check out solidgoldpet.com slash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=93.5s	93.5	 Zach. Once again, that's solidgoldpet.com slash Zach. I'll have a link in the description. I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=99.2s	99.2	 now been training Inertia for almost an entire year. I can't believe that much time has passed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=103.9s	103.9	 And I've been prioritizing teaching her stay in a huge variety of different situations. And by the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=109.4s	109.4	 way, I've taught her how to stay without using any harsh methods or force. Here's the thing. There
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=113.7s	113.7	 really are just three aspects to teaching your dog how to stay in order for them to truly understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=118.6s	118.6	 how to stay no matter what. Since we filmed the past year of training with Inertia and all of her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 stay training, I'm going to show you exactly how I trained Inertia to stay starting with when she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=129.8s	129.8	 was a puppy up to right now at just over a year old. Get my books too so that you have all of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=135.1s	135.1	 training advice in one place for easy reference. The first step to teaching your dog to stay is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=140.0s	140.0	 teaching them how to stay for a short period of time. In other words, not walking away and not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=144.7s	144.7	 using distractions. With Inertia, one of the first stay for a period of time lessons I did with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=150.8s	150.8	 was teaching her how to stay when I opened the crate. For this super early version of stay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=156.6s	156.6	 all I was working towards was having Inertia stay for just a few seconds whenever I opened the door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 to her crate. When Inertia was a puppy, I used a clicker very often to train basic concepts like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=166.8s	166.8	 this. Remember the click just means good dog, I like what you're doing, here's a treat. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 what the experience is really like here. It's lots of repetition. Now that we're getting into a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=176.7s	176.7	 good rhythm, I think I'm going to slow down the pace with which I reward. Remember that's the rate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=181.2s	181.2	 of reinforcement because she's demonstrating stability here. I'm definitely seeing progress,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 so that's good. During these early sessions, I'm not walking away or trying to get fancy. I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=192.2s	192.2	 focused on the amount of time that she'll stay. She's not allowed to just rush out, she has to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=196.9s	196.9	 hold a sit or a down. We're going to let her out. Oops, all right, see that was my mistake. I got a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 little clumsy. See if I can get her back in. See, that's damage control right there since I made a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=207.6s	207.6	 mistake. See the mistake was not intervening quickly enough to shut the door before she rushes out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=212.6s	212.6	 Got a lawnmower going by, more new sounds coming from out back, reacting well. In fact, she's in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=218.2s	218.2	 normal training mode, which I love because I'm actually working on teaching her not to run out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=222.9s	222.9	 of the crate just because it opens. Okay, come on. And just to give her the opportunity to let her know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=235.2s	235.2	 that it's okay to come out when I say okay. Understand that every time we change a variable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=239.4s	239.4	 like our dog's environment, it's generally a good idea to make the exercise easier. So if you're at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=244.6s	244.6	 home and you can get a 30 second stay, that's great. But when you go to a park or in the city,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=249.2s	249.2	 you might want to shoot for a five second stay at first. Adjust your expectations based on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=254.1s	254.1	 dog's training environment. With eight week old inertia, I mean, look how many treats I'm giving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=258.5s	258.5	 her. That's because in the beginning, I would give her treats just for staying a second at a time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=263.0s	263.0	 because at eight weeks old, I mean, she didn't really know too much. But today I can have her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=266.7s	266.7	 stay for minutes at a time without giving her a treat at all. It's really easy to assume that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=271.2s	271.2	 a dog will become reliant on treats. But as long as you have a plan and a strategy to systematically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=276.6s	276.6	 wean them off of treats, then this won't be an issue long term. When you feel like your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=281.0s	281.0	 understands this concept of stay for a period of time, you're then ready to start phasing in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=285.8s	285.8	 distance and slowly walking away from your dog. Now this is actually harder than it sounds because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=291.3s	291.3	 in general, dogs naturally like to be close to us. So if your dog is new to this, you'll need to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=296.1s	296.1	 extra patient and go extra slow. And as with all new concepts, make things as easy as possible for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=302.2s	302.2	 your dog in the beginning. Adjust your expectations for what you mean by distance. So with some dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=307.5s	307.5	 especially young ones, you may just need to move your eyes away from them just a few inches at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 first. Now she's going to come out. I'm not going to reward you. I'm going to let her know that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=315.1s	315.1	 doesn't work for her if she wants more treats. When you start taking steps back, go right back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 to your dog. And remember, this isn't stay for a period of time. So keep it short and focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=324.2s	324.2	 being able to take one, two or three steps back from your dog at a time. Push her too far. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=329.5s	329.5	 try that again. If your dog breaks their stay twice in a row, you're probably asking too much. So break
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=334.3s	334.3	 it down into easier steps to help your dog succeed. You can teach these elements of stay time and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=339.7s	339.7	 distance simultaneously, just like you can teach sit and lie down simultaneously. But I think it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=344.6s	344.6	 important to really have structured lessons focusing on each of these independently before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=349.0s	349.0	 you combine them. The point is break things down to be really easy in the beginning before you start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=353.7s	353.7	 combining the elements of stay so that you don't overwhelm your puppy or dog. Out of sight stay is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=358.5s	358.5	 important when you have to leave the room and you really want to be assured that your dog is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=362.6s	362.6	 to hold that state. So I'm going to turn my back on her. Very often when you turn your back on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=366.4s	366.4	 dog like that, they're like, Oh gosh, I better go chase them. Let me try out of sight right here real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=370.5s	370.5	 quick. Oh, did you see that? Sometimes you have to break down your training into smaller goals than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=378.9s	378.9	 you originally planned for. Here I'm preempting likely failure points by acknowledging success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=384.3s	384.3	 before she breaks her stay. Maybe someone's knocking at the door and you want them to hold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=388.4s	388.4	 a stay. I mean, there could be a million reasons that you want your dog to stay no matter what.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=393.2s	393.2	 And the best way to set them up for success to accomplish that is to practice it often. Sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=398.1s	398.1	 I'll say stay. Sometimes I won't say stay. Sit means don't move until I ask you to, but it's okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=403.7s	403.7	 to reiterate stay as well, just to really remind your dog what you want. It's really counterintuitive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=409.0s	409.0	 for a dog to resist the impulse to be near you when they have access to you. So I'm just going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=413.8s	413.8	 to go out of sight for a quick sec. Did she hold it? Oh, good. Yes. I'm going to mix things up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=419.4s	419.4	 I'm going to go to the right this time. They don't always generalize. If you mix up a variable like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=423.4s	423.4	 that, they can be like, Oh wait, I don't understand it in this particular context. Keeping your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=427.4s	427.4	 guessing is very important when they're ready for it. When I first introduced the concept of stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=431.9s	431.9	 while distracted, I like to use a distraction, an easy one, something like a toy. And remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=437.0s	437.0	 things like the environment are a huge variable. So practice somewhere easy at first, like your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=441.5s	441.5	 living room. Oh, see that? The idea is to bombard her at some point with tons of distractions and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=450.3s	450.3	 in seemingly random ways. At its most basic, you're simply training a dog to stay when they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=455.5s	455.5	 don't want to. You're asking a lot of your dog here. Therefore find the most minute examples
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=460.5s	460.5	 of your dog staying. Yeah. Okay, good job. Train with distractions often, but avoid overwhelming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=466.8s	466.8	 your dog with distractions. This can be a little tricky. Wait, wait. I mean, this is so hard for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=473.9s	473.9	 right here. Stay inertia. Disaster, disaster. Oh gosh. Remember to be flexible. If your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=482.8s	482.8	 having a particularly tough time training, consider rewarding more often to keep them more engaged.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=488.4s	488.4	 That's like probably our third trick or treater that we've had. And now she's starting to be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=493.0s	493.0	 little bit more reliable, putting her into a down stay help. But really all that I'm trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=497.0s	497.0	 accomplish with this exercise is getting her attention on me while something random and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=501.0s	501.0	 exciting is going on. The idea is you take your dog to so many places that they all just become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=505.0s	505.0	 normal. Like new places are just the normal thing we do. So there's no need to act really crazy just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=509.8s	509.8	 because you go to a new place. Environment causes dogs to act more uncharacteristically than anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=514.5s	514.5	 else just about. I've been training with varying levels of distractions with inertia from early on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=519.6s	519.6	 and you really do need to train in a lot of different settings and places if your ultimate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=524.6s	524.6	 goal is to get your dog to listen to you in all types of places. For example, teach your dog how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=529.3s	529.3	 to stay when you're having a party or if you're going to the city, maybe you're going to the park.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=534.2s	534.2	 This is a great opportunity to train your dog to stay, or you're teaching your dog how to stay when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=538.6s	538.6	 you approach a busy intersection for their safety. And of course there's those times when your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=543.4s	543.4	 sees some kind of wild animal and you want them to stay. This is why training in so many different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=547.9s	547.9	 places is so valuable. Do not however rely on waiting for natural distractions to arise in order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=554.6s	554.6	 to teach your dog how to stay. Instead you must create artificial distractions that are basic at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=559.8s	559.8	 first. Work up to ultimately imitating or exceeding distractions that your dog is likely to encounter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=565.4s	565.4	 in the real world. As your dog gets the hang of this, a wonderful way to practice stay with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=570.2s	570.2	 distractions is at a doorway that leads to the outside. Teaching a dog to stay is important.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=575.5s	575.5	 Teaching them to stay at an open door is extra important. Yes, see I'm just going to open it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=581.5s	581.5	 just a little bit and then I'm going to reward. Right there, I'm going to close the door limiting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=588.3s	588.3	 access to the environment where she wants to go. No need to pull back or provide a harsh correction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=592.8s	592.8	 here. She wants to go outside so I'll show her that there is a strict protocol before passing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=597.5s	597.5	 through an open door leading to the outdoors. Wait. Okay, good. And so right there, we'll let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=604.7s	604.7	 her go through only with permission. So hey, not bad. What's so great about teaching stay at doorways
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=609.4s	609.4	 is that you can merge two environments. You have the indoor easier environment and you're starting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=614.3s	614.3	 to introduce that outdoor environment and let it seep into your indoor training session. You see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=619.0s	619.0	 for example, if I say stay and I open the doorway right now, look what she does. She just walks right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=623.3s	623.3	 out. That's no good. If there's something exciting going on or she sees something across the street,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=627.5s	627.5	 wants to run out of the door, that could potentially be a life-threatening situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=631.3s	631.3	 So first of all, safety first. I've got her on leash and harness right here. So check out the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=635.8s	635.8	 first step right here. Look at this. Just move the door knob. Now let's move on. Notice how I'm on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=641.6s	641.6	 ground too to really keep her focused on me. Protocol moving forward is to insist that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=645.9s	645.9	 hold a stay every single time this door opens in a perfect world. And that's what my goal will be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=651.0s	651.0	 And perhaps in the future, I will try to make it more distracting and really, really ingrain in her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=656.7s	656.7	 that she is not supposed to go out of this front door at all without permission. This is the kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=661.1s	661.1	 of thing that's trained, you know, five, 10 seconds at a time. When you go to let them out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=665.4s	665.4	 for a potty break, you have them stay at the door while you open it. And you can see now we can open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=670.3s	670.3	 it really fast. I can move the door back and forth and she's holding that stay. Let's get a baseline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=676.8s	676.8	 here and just see what happens if I say stay. That's why we have a safety net. You see that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=684.7s	684.7	 She completely didn't pay attention to stay, ran out the door after the ball. That's unacceptable.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=689.5s	689.5	 So let me take a step back and make that a little bit easier for her. I'm going to get real close
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=693.8s	693.8	 to her here and emphasize stay. Good. Look at me. Very good. Nice work. See, I'm just trying to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=704.2s	704.2	 her through the motions here of staying while the ball goes. Good work. Once your dog is really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=709.4s	709.4	 starting to get this concept of stay with minor distractions, you can up your game by asking them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=714.0s	714.0	 to stay in even more exciting places. I love that you can practice stay at a threshold at a place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=719.6s	719.6	 like this because when you're in a store, you want to be able to look around the corner sometimes to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=724.5s	724.5	 see what's around there. You never know. Or even make it super challenging and ask them to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=728.2s	728.2	 around other dogs. At first, keep these stays really short and stay close to your dog. Remember,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=733.4s	733.4	 you're just working on stay with distractions right now, not walking away and not for a long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=739.4s	739.4	 period of time. Distraction training is hard for dogs and requires months of training in a variety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=744.4s	744.4	 of situations and places before your dog will generalize listening to you reliably in the face
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=749.5s	749.5	 of heavy distractions and temptations. Once your dog is good with distance, duration, and distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=755.9s	755.9	 individually, you're ready to start combining them into one big mega stay with distance,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=761.1s	761.1	 duration, and distractions all at one time. Check out this recent example. You'll notice I'm far
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=766.3s	766.3	 away from inertia in a public environment. I'm requiring her to stay for an extended period of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=771.4s	771.4	 time and I'm introducing distractions and she's staying around organic distractions that are all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=776.7s	776.7	 around us too, like people, dogs, and even a random ball that catches her attention. Remember to work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=782.3s	782.3	 up to this really methodically and always be ready to take a step back to make things easier for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=787.8s	787.8	 dog if they're struggling. It really is one of the most important things that any dog can know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=793.2s	793.2	 Practice this often to keep them sharp and make it a permanent part of their regular training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=797.8s	797.8	 I hope this lesson was helpful. Consider taking your dog's diet to the next level.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=802.2s	802.2	 To see Solid Gold's Deal of the Week, visit solidgoldpet.com slash Zach.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=807.0s	807.0	 Subscribe to my channel and get a copy of both of my books to have everything you need to learn how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=811.6s	811.6	 to train your dog. Follow us on Instagram and TikTok to keep up with inertia's progress in real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=816.7s	816.7	 time. All of the links are in the description below. In the next episode, I'm going to show
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCJjOcakGKA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=271&pp=iAQB&t=820.6s	820.6	 you exactly how I taught inertia to stop puppy biting and how long it really took.
