https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Catch it. Yes. Good. Ready? Catch it. Perfect. I'm Zach George. I train dogs. This is my new dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 and I'm going to show you how I trained her from day one. Things definitely won't always go smoothly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=13.1s	13.1	 You can start from the beginning or you can pick up anywhere. Subscribe and hit the bell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=17.4s	17.4	 notification so you never miss an episode. When you put into motion an approach based on love and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=22.0s	22.0	 respect, your results will forever remain in motion. This is Inertia. Welcome to the dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=29.0s	29.0	 experience. In this episode, we're going to work on two of the most important skills any dog can know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=34.5s	34.5	 and we'll work on getting Inertia's Frisbee game to the next level. I've been excited about this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 My new shipment from Pet Flow is here. I just want to say, guys, I was telling you how cool it was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=44.4s	44.4	 to have stuff delivered to you before it was cool. Pet Flow has so many cool things, so let's see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 what they sent. These are Wispar premium dog pads. These are my favorite pads to use. These are great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=55.3s	55.3	 for potty training a puppy or if there's bad weather and you want the option to have your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=58.7s	58.7	 go inside, so it's nice to have those around. And they sent a Zippy Paws climbers dog leash.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 They're really strong and really comfortable, and they're going to keep your dog safe. And these are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=67.5s	67.5	 some quality dog treats made by Origin. Monkfish and poultry. Indeed, I know you're going to love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=73.8s	73.8	 these. Pet Flow has all kinds of amazing things for your dog, but my favorite thing about them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=78.2s	78.2	 is that they automatically can ship your dog's food to you without you even having to ask. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=83.0s	83.0	 you tell them every two, three, four weeks, whatever, how often you want your food delivered,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=87.3s	87.3	 and it's there. Every time you get your pet's food from Pet Flow, you're also helping to feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=91.5s	91.5	 shelter pets too. They're going to give you $10 off your first three automatic shipments when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=96.1s	96.1	 enter code ZAK30. I'll have all of the information in the description below. Oh, look. So Inertia still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=103.3s	103.3	 occasionally barks at things. Let me see if I can get her to pay attention to me. Inertia, come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=108.6s	108.6	 Good job. Oh, that was awesome. So being able to call her off things that really distract her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=114.5s	114.5	 outside is why you want treats available. It is time to do some training with you, young lady.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 Today we'll be working on two of the most important life-saving skills. Come and stay. But first,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=125.6s	125.6	 I want to give Inertia some exercise, and I want to see if we can elevate her frisbee game. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=130.5s	130.5	 going to work on something pretty brand new for her. I'm still continuing to use a lead. This
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=134.6s	134.6	 happens to be a 50-foot lead. I still want to make sure that I have a safety net in place with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=139.1s	139.1	 so many distractions and being in a public environment like this. Look at her checking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 out the dogs right now. She's doing pretty good. She saw those dogs and now she's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=148.0s	148.0	 meh, I'm over it. I don't need to obsess over them. Inertia's interest in dogs continues to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=153.0s	153.0	 somewhat of an issue, but I mean, she's just doing what comes natural. This is something we do a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=158.0s	158.0	 of. Just stay, look at the dog, don't chase the dog. Sometimes I will practice calling her off a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=163.8s	163.8	 distraction like that. Other times I'll just let her look at it. She really does seem to find some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=167.9s	167.9	 enjoyment in observing dogs from a distance like this. It also gets her used to seeing them. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=173.3s	173.3	 think when you're dealing with a semi-reactive dog or dog reactive dog as Inertia can be,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=177.5s	177.5	 it's important to be very patient and be in this for the long haul. It's normal for dogs to want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=182.4s	182.4	 to lunge and bark at other dogs and play with them. That's what it seems to be in a nurse's case,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=186.3s	186.3	 but you can see at this distance, she does really well with dogs for the most part.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=190.6s	190.6	 So I'm happy to let her satisfy her craving to look at lots of dogs walking by. I'm having a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=195.5s	195.5	 little bit of a problem in our frisbee game and that's getting her to play with two frisbees at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=199.5s	199.5	 one time. Watch this. I just want to see what happens here. Come around. Good. Get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=208.6s	208.6	 Bring it to me. Come on. Let's go. Inertia, come. Good. Let go. Come around. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=218.3s	218.3	 See that? Isn't that the strangest thing? She was so focused on this frisbee that when I threw the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 second one, she was like, what? Disregards this one completely. I'm just going to try to do some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=228.3s	228.3	 troubleshooting and see if I can get her to focus on two discs simultaneously. That's asking a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=235.2s	235.2	 from a singularly focused animal like Inertia. Being focused on a single thing is actually pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=240.6s	240.6	 normal with a lot of different dogs. They get so fixated on one thing that they can't even process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=246.5s	246.5	 why we would want them to play with two at the same time, it seems. My goal is to get her paying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=250.6s	250.6	 attention to two or three frisbees during this lesson and that should also serve to take her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=254.6s	254.6	 edge off and make my obedience training go more smoothly. It's only fair to give your dog a chance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=259.3s	259.3	 to run, jump and chase if they like that sort of thing. I'm just going to give her an appropriate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=263.0s	263.0	 way to do that. First, I'm just going to do some brainstorming right now and see what I can do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=266.9s	266.9	 I'm just going to try to connect with my dog and figure out. Okay. Get it. Good. All right. Get this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=273.3s	273.3	 one. Good. Not bad. Good. Ready? Come around. Catch it. Good. Okay. Bring it to me. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=284.4s	284.4	 Let go. Good. What's this? Get it. There you go. There you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=291.6s	291.6	 Look at her going back to that one. So quirky. Inertia, come. Mom doesn't want to play with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=299.4s	299.4	 right now. Good girl. Let go. Good. What's this? Leave it. So I'm actually going to have to tell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=308.6s	308.6	 her to leave that one alone. Come around. Let me make it fun for her. I don't want to frustrate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=312.3s	312.3	 her too much. Good girl. What's this? Get it. Get it. What's this? Come on. Get it. Yes. So I got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=320.8s	320.8	 her biting two frisbees back to back and then I threw one. Let go. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=329.6s	329.6	 Ready? Come here. Look, it's like she knows psychically this is still the one. Look at that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=336.2s	336.2	 Good. Get it. Let go. Come around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=342.0s	342.0	 Funny. Ready? Come around. Catch it. Good. Inertia, come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=351.8s	351.8	 Inertia, come. Let go. Yes. Go. Yes. Right there. So it may look insignificant,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=359.9s	359.9	 but that's exactly what I'm trying to get her to do right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=364.6s	364.6	 Come around. Good. Go. Good. Bring it to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=371.0s	371.0	 Let go. Come around. Yes. Who would ever guess that you would have people practicing fly fishing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=383.1s	383.1	 in the background of your training set, at least on a field where there are no fish.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=386.6s	386.6	 So far, Inertia doesn't seem too distracted by it. I can't emphasize how you must get outside and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=392.7s	392.7	 practice with your dog in highly distracting places or even moderately distracting places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=396.8s	396.8	 One of the next things that I'm aiming to teach Inertia is something called a multiple segment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=401.0s	401.0	 That's where you throw one frisbee after another and your dog catches one. Let's go of it, catches
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=406.2s	406.2	 the next one. Let's go of it and so on. So let's give it a shot. Come around. Catch it. Good. Bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=411.8s	411.8	 it to me. Let go. Ready? Stay. Ready? Catch it. Multiples like this are pretty messy when you first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=418.9s	418.9	 start training them. Yes. What's this? Catch it. Good. Come here. The great thing about teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=425.8s	425.8	 multiple frisbees is it teaches your dog to use their brain in a different way, which will almost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=430.6s	430.6	 certainly transition into other areas of their life. When dogs get really good at doing a multiple
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=435.5s	435.5	 segment, they can just do them one after the other. And it's a really impressive thing to see too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=439.7s	439.7	 Okay. Come around. Stay. Ready? Get it. Come on. Get it. Catch it. Good. Let go. Catch it. Almost.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=449.3s	449.3	 Good. Catch it. Yeah. Catch it. Look at that. Look how quick she's getting. Yes. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=455.8s	455.8	 She's picking up on the new game though, it seems. So at this point, she seems to want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=459.5s	459.5	 catch two, three, four in a row sometimes, but then she's like, all right, give me a real throw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=463.5s	463.5	 She really seems to find some satisfaction in just running out a few yards to catch a frisbee. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=468.2s	468.2	 going to mix those two different types of throws in to keep her engaged with this new game called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=472.8s	472.8	 multiples. Just remember mental and physical exercise like this is fantastic at reducing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=478.2s	478.2	 all kinds of unwanted behavior problems. Now that she's exercised, she's panting a bit. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=482.6s	482.6	 she's ready for some obedience training. It's been a few weeks since we've covered come and stay. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=487.2s	487.2	 I want to give you an idea of how that's looking. Stay. Inertia definitely hasn't been perfect with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=491.9s	491.9	 this. Some days are definitely better than others. So I'm making it a point to practice it a lot. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=496.4s	496.4	 again, with the heightened levels of distractions out here, it's much harder. It should go without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=499.9s	499.9	 saying that in a home environment or in the backyard environment, she's generally pretty good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=504.3s	504.3	 with this. Stay and come are some of the most important things that a dog needs to know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=511.4s	511.4	 Currently, I'm actively focused on combining distance, duration and distractions with my stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=516.2s	516.2	 training as well as my recall training. Okay, come. So I'm getting a warmed up with a relatively
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=521.1s	521.1	 easy stay at least for her at this point in her training. Good job girl. I'm going to walk a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=525.5s	525.5	 feet away and make sure I can get her attention on me and make sure she's relatively focused.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=529.7s	529.7	 Walking around being a little erratic to be a little distracting to her is also a way that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=534.7s	534.7	 really want to prove her stay so that even when things are a little more exciting than normal,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=539.8s	539.8	 I'll know that she's got it in her to stay. She tends to break stay when I start running around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=545.0s	545.0	 stay. So let me prove for that because that's real exciting. She probably associates that with play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=553.2s	553.2	 Stay. Good girl. Okay, come. Good. Nice job. And I'm just teaching her to kind of come to my side.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=560.3s	560.3	 I like that when she comes to me. Can you switch? Switch is looking pretty good. And one more time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=567.9s	567.9	 over here. Yeah, there we go. She's getting better with her parallel parking. Okay, good job. So here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=575.2s	575.2	 you know, we have a young man playing with a ball over here. And Ursa is holding her stay because I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=579.5s	579.5	 guarantee you she wants to go up to each and every one of those people and play with them. I'm also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=583.6s	583.6	 rewarding her a lot less than I used to. I mean, she's really starting to generalize this stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=589.0s	589.0	 This time I'm going to try to add some artificial distractions. We know she loves Frisbee, but again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=594.2s	594.2	 if I say hey, don't play with the Frisbee now, then I still want her to lay off of it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=598.3s	598.3	 Ball over here. Stay. Now let me make it even more challenging. Leave it alone. Stay. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=607.5s	607.5	 Now let me see if I can call her in the midst of these distractions. Come. Yeah. Good. Here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=614.2s	614.2	 face the camper. Now they got to see those beautiful eyes. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=623.4s	623.4	 I'm going to remind her to stay and I'm going to have tension here on the leash and pull her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=627.4s	627.4	 and see if she'll resist that. Stay. Look at that. Look at that. Stay. That's awesome. Lie down. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=636.7s	636.7	 know it was a little confusing. Okay, come. Good job. Come here. Right here. Okay. I'll take it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=644.2s	644.2	 Look at you. You're starting to look like a trained dog or something over here. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=653.8s	653.8	 Okay. Come. Yeah. This is the state of her stay and for recall right now. I've also been making it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=662.7s	662.7	 a point to practice lots of her other random skills in various environments like this. For
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=667.8s	667.8	 example, maybe I'll ask her to heal a little bit and see how she's doing with that. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=674.5s	674.5	 Come on. Let go. Oh, stay over here. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=678.9s	678.9	 Come on. So dizzy. Sometimes I like doing this stuff after a primary training session because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=685.8s	685.8	 most of it's relatively easy for her at this point, provided she's had a good outlet and she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=691.1s	691.1	 feels mentally and physically satisfied. I don't always have a specific plan. I try to mix up the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=696.1s	696.1	 order in which I ask her to do things. So I'll work on a lot of her different tricks too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=701.0s	701.0	 In the next episode, I'll see if inertia can be trusted when I leave her alone with my lunch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=705.9s	705.9	 and we're going to start teaching her how to do math. That's right. Math. Can any of your dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=711.0s	711.0	 do that? Get $10 off your first three automatic shipments from pet flow by using discount code
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 Zach 30 at checkout. Subscribe to this channel and follow me on Instagram and tick-tock for daily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=721.2s	721.2	 updates on how inertia is doing right now. Get a copy of my books too. I'll have all of those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlIgjG4VZgM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=280&pp=iAQB&t=726.2s	726.2	 links in the description of this video.
