https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Look at that hunk of a...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog Inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=9.6s	9.6	 I'm taking you along as I train her from day one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=12.6s	12.6	 You can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning. Welcome to the dog training experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=19.2s	19.2	 In today's episode inertia and I will face our biggest training challenge yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=23.8s	23.8	 Can I possibly get her to listen to me in the middle of a super intense city environment?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=28.7s	28.7	 It doesn't matter whether you live in the city or the country
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=31.2s	31.2	 Having your dog's food automatically there whenever you need it is going to make your life much easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=36.4s	36.4	 By going to pet flow and telling them the brand of dog food you want and how often you want it there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=41.5s	41.5	 You'll be sure that your dog always has their food whenever they need it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=45.1s	45.1	 Plus you're going to get your time back in order to try the service and see if it's right for you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=49.3s	49.3	 Pet flow is gonna give you $10 off your first three automatic shipments when you enter code Zach 30 at checkout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=54.9s	54.9	 I'm gonna have the link and that discount code in the description of this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 Inertia is now seven months old and we've spent tons of time socializing her in gradually more and more exciting environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=64.7s	64.7	 But there is nothing as intense as a busy city location like the French Quarter in New Orleans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=69.6s	69.6	 Since this will likely be an overwhelming experience for inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=72.8s	72.8	 I'm going to be careful not to stay for too long and I'll be ready to leave on a moment's notice or dial back my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=78.0s	78.0	 Training if she seems too uncomfortable. We're in the French Quarter in New Orleans right now. So there's tons of pedestrians all around us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=83.9s	83.9	 We're on our way to do a training session and inertia is pretty thrown off by her surroundings all of a sudden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=94.0s	94.0	 Yes, that's called quiet so I'm gonna try to get her quiet by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=99.8s	99.8	 Reinforcing her with some chicken here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=102.7s	102.7	 When she's quiet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=108.1s	108.1	 Quiet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=109.5s	109.5	 Yes, good girl there are people walking really close by of course, she's gonna be like well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=114.3s	114.3	 I've never seen anything like that before. This is the most urban environment. We've ever brought inertia to so there's a lot of activity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=121.1s	121.1	 She's not very reliable when she's super excited, especially in public even in a park setting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=126.3s	126.3	 But I do want to start giving her more exposure to city like settings. Hey inertia. Can you be quiet?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=132.7s	132.7	 Yes, quiet her impulse is to bark. So I'm trying to preempt those barking out bursts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=138.3s	138.3	 She's familiar with the training drill like this because this is what we've done at home in the past to address her barking now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=143.6s	143.6	 If we hadn't previously been working on her barking in other settings, then this would be pretty challenging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=148.9s	148.9	 She's never trained in this environment before I know she's not going to excel and that training is likely not gonna be great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=155.6s	155.6	 This is just to give her some exposure to this new place dogs are never really ready for this until you do it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 So we're just gonna go do it and give her some general experience in this new environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=166.0s	166.0	 You have to go into it though with the right mindset so I'm not expecting big things today, maybe she'll surprise me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=172.5s	172.5	 I don't know. We'll see so right off the bat. You can see she's really taken by the environment just sniffing around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=179.6s	179.6	 Hey inertia, look at me. Will you sit?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=182.9s	182.9	 What ultimately if you look down here, that's the kind of environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 I would love her to be able to be dependable in if I go over there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=189.6s	189.6	 She's gonna be trying to jump on every person that walks by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=192.2s	192.2	 She's gonna be constantly distracted by the multitude of sense, but I'm looking over here. This is less busy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=198.2s	198.2	 So I'm gonna try to phase in this type of environment over time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=201.5s	201.5	 But it gets increasingly more congested as you go from here to here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=206.2s	206.2	 This is where I want to start just kind of ease her into it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=208.7s	208.7	 I just want to hang out here for a minute or two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=210.9s	210.9	 Let her check out the environment so far better than expected when you're first starting to take your dog to intense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=216.5s	216.5	 Environments like this. You really have to go back to basics. You'll see me luring and asking inertia for things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=221.7s	221.7	 She's known since she was a puppy but because we're doing them here. It's going to be much harder for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=226.9s	226.9	 So my goal is to make many of these basic exercises as easy as possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=231.3s	231.3	 Even if it means taking a step back to the most basic of training. How about a sit?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 I don't want to ask for too many sits because I still want to be fair to her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=240.5s	240.5	 Okay, and let her check things out place like this has got moderate levels of pedestrian activity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=246.8s	246.8	 But not quite as busy as the city itself. Let me see if I get a look at me wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=251.7s	251.7	 Look at me and this it she even offered to sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=255.2s	255.2	 This is not gonna stick as people start walking by she's going to be more and more distracted and excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=260.5s	260.5	 I'm keeping her on a pretty short leash as well here part of experiencing a new environment like this is allowing inertia to experience the people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=267.8s	267.8	 Within it. So even though inertia is pulling on the leash right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=270.9s	270.9	 I think it's much more important to help her learn that these people are friendly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=275.4s	275.4	 Especially since she's been nervous of some strangers in the recent past
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=278.8s	278.8	 Insisting on persistent focus and this place is not the goal at this moment. We'll work on that later in this lesson. Hi guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=286.2s	286.2	 How are you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=288.8s	288.8	 Go ahead, this is fantastic. There are so many tourists in this part of town. Look at this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=292.8s	292.8	 This is excitement urination over here. She got a little excited when greeting people fortunately was outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=298.7s	298.7	 So that's always a plus but that's something we're still working through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=302.1s	302.1	 She does pee when she gets really excited by new people. She's been doing it less and less, but it's still pretty consistent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=308.2s	308.2	 I mean, that's not nothing that's a fair amount of pee. There's a helicopter coming above right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=312.8s	312.8	 You might remember that when inertia was younger, she was a little bit nervous about helicopters. This will be a good test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=317.9s	317.9	 Is she still nervous of them? She's checking it out seems to be reacting in a very healthy way nice job girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=323.1s	323.1	 So I'm really encouraged by that. She's doing well with the stairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=326.0s	326.0	 There's quite a bit of leash pulling going on here and a lot of excitement because this is an extremely unique
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=332.3s	332.3	 Environment for inertia the primary goal during this early training is just general exposure not a perfectly behaved dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=339.2s	339.2	 But overall she's doing pretty well, even though it might not look like it. She's not barking. She's not lunging at anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=344.4s	344.4	 So here we have a nice sit and a wait. Oh, we have a kid. Oh, yeah, absolutely sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=355.2s	355.2	 Yeah, exactly, yeah, we're making a dog training video for YouTube actually yeah, thanks appreciate that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=361.3s	361.3	 I wasn't expecting so many people to want to come up in pet inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=364.5s	364.5	 That's actually really working to our benefit because she's in such a good mood and really interested in meeting lots of new people today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=370.7s	370.7	 Let me see if I can get a stand wait, so we've got a stand in public. Yes, I get excited over that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=377.3s	377.3	 That's pretty cool. Can I get a wave? Look at that? She's actually doing tricks now out here. Can you believe this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=382.9s	382.9	 That's all good though, but there are no people in our immediate area here, but just for fun
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=387.2s	387.2	 Let me see if I can get a bow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=390.2s	390.2	 Wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=392.1s	392.1	 Yeah, she's doing it. Look at that. That was wonderful. You're doing really good out here. So that was her first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=397.9s	397.9	 Super public performance. I'd say there are more people at the top of the stairs here. It's gonna probably get a little more challenging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=403.6s	403.6	 Let's go doing really well with going up the stairs. Good job. Very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=407.2s	407.2	 So I think I'm just gonna walk around a little bit up here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=413.2s	413.2	 So even the speakers in the background are things that can throw dogs off right now you can see she's pulling every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=419.3s	419.3	 Which way there's no communicating with her because she's so excited by her surroundings right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=423.5s	423.5	 Okay, come here after just a little bit of exploring. She's starting to really pay attention a lot better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=429.5s	429.5	 In her shit this way. Come on loose leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=435.4s	435.4	 Yes, thank you a border collie, yeah
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=442.5s	442.5	 We're gonna get away from the loud music now, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=445.3s	445.3	 What time is it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=446.5s	446.5	 It's gonna be a challenge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=448.3s	448.3	 This is her first time seeing a mule and she's like, what is that? Yes. I like that reaction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=454.4s	454.4	 Very good. Once she gets a closer look at those mules. I don't know how she's gonna react
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=457.9s	457.9	 So I'll be keeping an eye on that too, and I'll try to encourage her to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=462.5s	462.5	 Civilized easy. Oh my gosh boy. We're really getting thrown in the deep end right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=467.3s	467.3	 I'm gonna really be focused on management as we make our way through this area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=471.1s	471.1	 Not so much training her but keeping her from jumping on people keeping her on a short leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=474.8s	474.8	 My arm is sore just trying to restrain her there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=478.3s	478.3	 She was so excited and certainly not ready to come we walk through a group of people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=482.7s	482.7	 The only way to get there is to practice a lot and your first practice session isn't always going to be your most successful one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=489.9s	489.9	 and look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=492.3s	492.3	 I'm just gonna let her take it in for a second
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=494.7s	494.7	 I'm opting not to escort inertia away from the mule right now since the mule is moving away from us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=500.1s	500.1	 And I'd prefer not to increase the tension on the leash by dragging her away if at all possible here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=505.6s	505.6	 Understand protocol when your dog reacts like this is creating distance between your dog and the thing they're reacting to that right there tells me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=513.0s	513.0	 I'm gonna have to do some desensitizing around mules over the coming months. This is our baseline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=517.8s	517.8	 You can see we got a long way to go even though we're getting hints of success as we now get into this more pedestrian heavy area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=523.9s	523.9	 She's like really really into checking everything. Sorry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=527.5s	527.5	 She tried to jump on that lady as she walked by that's the last thing I want. Oh here comes another feel easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=534.7s	534.7	 Sometimes you just have to step in and try to calm your dog down in a genuine way in the way that only you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=540.4s	540.4	 Since you know them best good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=543.3s	543.3	 Very good. That was awesome. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=545.5s	545.5	 Very good. Like even though she still barked at the mule there. It was a little less intense notice how she's behaving right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=551.8s	551.8	 I feel like I'm walking a shark just something that's flailing and pulling certainly not a casual walk right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=558.1s	558.1	 You've been seeing this pattern as we get into a new scene
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=561.2s	561.2	 She's more and more distracted and then after spending a little bit of time here. She starts to come around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=566.3s	566.3	 So I want to see if that continues. I'm gonna hang out for a bit right around this area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=571.1s	571.1	 Absolutely. Yeah, she's friendly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=573.5s	573.5	 There you go being down here has proven to be a really fantastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=577.1s	577.1	 Socialization opportunity too because people are reaching out to her really wanting to interact with her and she's still under eight months old
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=584.0s	584.0	 Socialization experiences like this really go a long way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=586.6s	586.6	 Let me see if we can do like some basic leash walking back and forth and see how she does there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=592.6s	592.6	 Very good. Okay, come on. Yes good weights
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=597.1s	597.1	 Over here this one. Can I have a sit? Good. You're doing great. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=602.3s	602.3	 That's good like that like that she turned into her heel position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=606.2s	606.2	 Albeit with a lure, but that's okay. Wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=611.7s	611.7	 Good job. Okay. Although she's pretty good until people get within a few inches of her and then she's just like really wanting to say
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=618.5s	618.5	 Hi to them. Let's see if she'll hug. Come here in her show here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=622.6s	622.6	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=624.0s	624.0	 All right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=625.4s	625.4	 Wait, we got a hug here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=627.4s	627.4	 Those are all ways that I can test her willingness to listen to me in a new place nice reliable one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=632.7s	632.7	 Okay, good job, but I'll bet you you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=635.0s	635.0	 If we just walk a few more feet she's gonna be like I have no idea what you want me to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=638.6s	638.6	 I'm can't even focus on you right now. So let's move on here. We are back to the extreme pulling right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=644.5s	644.5	 I'm trying to check everything out in future lessons. I'll focus on this pulling but right now that's not the battle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=650.3s	650.3	 I'm gonna pick it's gonna stop for a second really training in slow motion. It's very important at this point by slow motion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=656.1s	656.1	 I mean, I'm not in a rush to get to the end of the path here gonna stop let her check things out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=660.5s	660.5	 Maybe do some minor easy training with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=664.8s	664.8	 Yes, like that she just looked up at me right there right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=668.2s	668.2	 It's really hard to compete with her impulsive behavior of just smelling and checking out the ground weights
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=677.2s	677.2	 Yes, good girl, so that's pretty good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=679.2s	679.2	 I just encouraged her to hold her position right there and she did see the bicycle storing her off a little bit there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=684.4s	684.4	 But I mean what a great way for her to see so many different things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=687.5s	687.5	 Maybe I'll practice stay with distance here. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=692.5s	692.5	 Alright stay so I'm doing like these real basic exercises
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=696.7s	696.7	 We were doing months ago, but doing them in this type of place is such a major variable change
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=702.4s	702.4	 It's completely necessary to dumb it down and make it interesting and exciting. Okay inertia come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=708.6s	708.6	 Good sit come when called in this setting. I'd say so far. I've got to give her an a-minus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=714.8s	714.8	 What's that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=716.2s	716.2	 Things on wheels
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=717.2s	717.2	 This is why it's so critical to get out of the house and train in public as often as you can because there's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=723.0s	723.0	 Absolutely. No way to prepare for the real world other than training in the real world often stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=731.1s	731.1	 So I'm trying a spontaneous stay there she's doing really well on those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=734.7s	734.7	 She's especially reliable when I put my hand right in front of her face as if to tell her don't move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=739.0s	739.0	 Let me practice that a little bit here stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=744.4s	744.4	 Good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=749.8s	749.8	 I mean, how do I have any way of knowing that that's going to occur people just screaming out of the blue?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=754.9s	754.9	 It's great though. I get excited as a trainer, especially when I see that she's noticing them, but she's not shutting down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=759.9s	759.9	 She's not barking. Those are all things that would make things a bit more complicated. You're doing so well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=764.6s	764.6	 All right, so inertia has had some time to adjust. Let me see if I can get her playing with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=768.7s	768.7	 Yes, good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=769.7s	769.7	 So that's pretty awesome. I was actually able to get her in a playful mood briefly. Will she stay in it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=774.9s	774.9	 That's really exciting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=777.2s	777.2	 I can get her playing tug-of-war out here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=779.2s	779.2	 That'll help me really teach her how to get excited and pay attention to me in public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=784.8s	784.8	 So I'm trying to strengthen the value of tug-of-war as a currency right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=788.7s	788.7	 Because this tends to increase in value over time the more dog gets hooked on it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=792.6s	792.6	 It can prove to be a very reliable way to get their attention on you instead of everything around them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=797.7s	797.7	 If they like playing tug enough. So I think this was a really good training session overall. We're gonna walk back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=803.2s	803.2	 I'm sure I'll have more training opportunities on the way back. I don't want to push her any further
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=806.8s	806.8	 I'm gonna quit while I'm ahead and hopefully we can build on this over time and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=810.8s	810.8	 Continue to give her more and more exposure and hopefully I can get her listening to me more and more reliably in settings like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=817.1s	817.1	 This is by far one of the most challenging settings that you can ask a dog to listen to you in. What do you think?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=823.9s	823.9	 That's a street car in the next episode
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=826.6s	826.6	 I'll address inertia separation anxiety update you on how her frisbee game is coming along and I'll see if she'll listen to me when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=833.1s	833.1	 Giraffes are nearby easily eliminate one of the most common inconveniences in your life and get your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=839.8s	839.8	 Automatically sent to you from pep flow in order to try it out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=842.5s	842.5	 Pep flow is gonna give you $10 off your first three automatic shipments when you enter code Zack 30 at checkout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=847.8s	847.8	 I'll have that information in the description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=849.8s	849.8	 Keep up with our training progress in real time on Instagram and tick-tock
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VM4Evi-ud3o&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=297&pp=iAQB&t=853.8s	853.8	 Subscribe to my channel and get both of my books for a complete guide to training your dog
