https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Are you serious, Inertia? Oh my goodness.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=3.6s	3.6	 I'm in over my head here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=5.4s	5.4	 Oh yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=8.1s	8.1	 Yeah! What?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=10.9s	10.9	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog, Inertia.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=15.8s	15.8	 I'm taking you along as I train her from day one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=18.6s	18.6	 You can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=22.4s	22.4	 Welcome to the dog training experience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 Today we're going to take our distraction levels to new heights during training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=29.3s	29.3	 We'll address destructive chewing and we'll work on the nurse's emergency weight and more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=34.0s	34.0	 If you have a dog, you should have their food automatically delivered.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=36.9s	36.9	 I mean, why not?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=38.1s	38.1	 PepFlo makes it insanely easy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=40.2s	40.2	 They'll almost certainly have your dog's brand of food and all you do is tell them how often you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=45.3s	45.3	 it delivered. No more having to carry heavy bags or arriving at the pet store seeing that your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=50.6s	50.6	 food isn't even there. And to make it easy, you'll get $10 off your first three automatic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 shipments when you enter code ZACH30.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=57.0s	57.0	 I'm going to have a link and a discount code in the description of this video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=61.0s	61.0	 If one is serious about training, they must train in a variety of places outside of the hole.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 Today we'll explore City Park in New Orleans and see what distractions the world has for us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=72.0s	72.0	 We are here at the park. This is where we've come to do our public training today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=76.3s	76.3	 Right out of the car. You know the drill by now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=78.5s	78.5	 Let Inertia smell around. Let her get comfortable with everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=81.4s	81.4	 I was tempted to enforce leave it alone, but then I realized, man, we've only been here like 30
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=86.4s	86.4	 seconds. Let me let her smell the oak tree, which is much older than her or me or any of you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=91.9s	91.9	 We've been here now, what, maybe two minutes. Let's see what happens. Leave it alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=96.8s	96.8	 Come on, let's go this way. She's really been doing a lot better on that. It's tempting to fall into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=101.4s	101.4	 the trap of just pulling them along when they start smelling. But if you'll just spend a few days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=105.5s	105.5	 really enforcing, leave it alone. Let's go, you know, encouraging them to come along.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=110.4s	110.4	 And they learn that you're going to do that every single time. They eventually learn that the path
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=114.6s	114.6	 of least resistance is to just listen to you. There's some pulling going on. I don't love it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=119.0s	119.0	 but I'm choosing to pick my battles more with the ground sense than I am the pulling.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=123.1s	123.1	 Trying to train everything at once isn't advisable. Remember, we're in a public place,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=127.5s	127.5	 which makes it much more challenging for Inertia to listen by an order of magnitude at least.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=132.7s	132.7	 This is why public training is the best. You just encounter random things like a balloon on a bench.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=137.7s	137.7	 That's something that your dog should be prepared for. Hey, Inertia, what's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=141.5s	141.5	 I've been in the habit of calling her to me and just letting her go back to checking out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=145.5s	145.5	 the environment so she doesn't think, oh gosh, every time he calls me, I don't get to do anything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=149.4s	149.4	 There it is. Look, I knew she would think it was interesting. Pretty good reaction there. She's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=154.5s	154.5	 like, okay, it's a little odd. Make sure I give her room to back up from it and check it out at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=158.8s	158.8	 distance she feels safe with. Let's go look at it one more time. What do you think? What do you think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=163.8s	163.8	 of that balloon? Sure, it seems insignificant, but give your dog low key opportunities to check
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 out new things. Nice. Yeah. Good job. This is a good example where she's like really on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=173.8s	173.8	 scent right now. She's like, I really want to check this out. But let's say I'm in a situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=178.0s	178.0	 where, look, we got to get going. Inertia, come. See, not so responsive to come when called. Leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=184.6s	184.6	 it alone. Inertia, come on, let's go. Yes. I just took the time to explain to her that I wanted her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=191.1s	191.1	 to do that thing that we practiced a million times in a million different contexts. And I wanted her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=196.0s	196.0	 to do it right here in this environment and this context. I haven't used any treats in this whole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=201.7s	201.7	 training session so far. I'm trying to use the environment as a reinforcer because she's really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=207.0s	207.0	 interested in everything. When she starts smelling the ground and I want her to keep going, the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=210.9s	210.9	 benefits of her is, okay, we get to go explore other things. Leave it alone. Inertia. Leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=216.8s	216.8	 Come on. Let's go. Yes. Come on. Perfect. Very high rate of success of getting her to leave things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=223.6s	223.6	 alone without having to pull her along. I'm going to try to encourage her to pick up the pace here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=227.6s	227.6	 but she's getting really distracted by all the smells. Ground scents are one thing, but something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=231.8s	231.8	 tells me we're going to encounter much tougher distractions. There's beef bones. There's crawfish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=237.1s	237.1	 tails. This is tough, guys. I'm in over my head here. That's a crawfish tail. Leave it. This is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=243.9s	243.9	 bone. Leave it alone. There's ants. Come on. Let's get away from here. Let's go. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=250.2s	250.2	 Inertia. Let's go. This way. Yes. That was hard, but we got her to almost get away from all of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=256.6s	256.6	 this real world distractions. Leave it. Come on. Let's go. This way. Yes. Here we are. This is our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=262.6s	262.6	 planned distraction for the day. We have a small theme park inside City Park here in New Orleans.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=267.5s	267.5	 We thought it might be kind of cool to introduce her to this roller coaster, see how she reacts.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=271.5s	271.5	 Looks like it's coming. Listen to the sound.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=276.7s	276.7	 Oh.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=280.5s	280.5	 That's a little bit of anxiety. We'll let her go back a little bit here. Yes. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=285.3s	285.3	 See how she's not taking that? She's like, wait a minute. There's a bunch of screaming people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=289.0s	289.0	 on this thing that's going through the sky. See how she wants to get some distance? We're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=292.6s	292.6	 to honor that desire here. Let her get some distance. We'll park over here for a minute.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=296.6s	296.6	 That's kind of Inertia's pattern, though. She'll want some distance and then she'll take it in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=300.5s	300.5	 and then she'll be okay with getting closer to it. You want this? She's taking chicken from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=305.2s	305.2	 this distance, which indicates that she's a little more comfortable. It can't hurt for her to have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=309.4s	309.4	 the association of something really good like chicken with a roller coaster. Giving your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=313.7s	313.7	 access to screaming people and letting them understand that that's a thing has a whole host
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=319.0s	319.0	 of benefits. Dogs notice those eccentric reactions we do in certain situations, and it's not the norm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=325.2s	325.2	 for humans to just scream like that. So when they hear humans do something like that, that's new,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=329.4s	329.4	 they learn, oh, okay, I guess people can do that too. We'll hang out over here. I don't want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=333.6s	333.6	 get too close. Yeah, much better this time. Good girl. You want this? Still not taking treats.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=340.6s	340.6	 When a dog goes from taking treats just a moment ago to not taking treats in a single session like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 this, it's a sign that they're overstimulated and not really receptive to actual training in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=350.4s	350.4	 particular moment. Instead, what I like to do is just let them observe their surroundings and take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=354.7s	354.7	 it in for a little bit. I wonder if she'll be more comfortable even closer to it. Little throw it off,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=358.6s	358.6	 but she took it in. She was pretty brave there. Here it comes again.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=366.3s	366.3	 Fun.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=370.2s	370.2	 Nice job, girl. Do you care about chickens? Yeah, she's really comfortable now. Being in public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=374.8s	374.8	 represents a great opportunity to meet new people too. This is so important with puppies. Would you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 like to pet her? Okay, sure. Okay, you want to say hi? Oh my goodness. Here we go. Hi, what's her name?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=388.1s	388.1	 Her name is Inertia. That was pretty good. She didn't jump all over them. She was excited,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=392.0s	392.0	 but there's not much you can do about that. But I wanted to make sure she didn't jump, especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=395.4s	395.4	 since there was a young child there. Let me see if I can get a stand. Stand? Oh, I think we're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=400.8s	400.8	 to get it. Good. Can I get a bow? Before she wouldn't give me the time of day, after a few minutes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=405.7s	405.7	 she's listening to me. So really resist the urge to get frustrated and just give up when you come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=410.4s	410.4	 to a place and your dog's like, I can't pay attention to you. Test often and understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=415.0s	415.0	 that it's just fine and acceptable in the beginning when they're just like, I don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=418.8s	418.8	 to listen. The fact that she's doing things is just a sign that she is more relaxed and more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=423.6s	423.6	 comfortable like she is at home. That was a success. I'd say let's see what else we can find around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=427.5s	427.5	 here. We didn't plant this. This is real. That's real food. Let's see what happens. Hey, Inertia,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=432.3s	432.3	 leave it alone. Leave it. Leave it. Leave it alone. Yes. Good job. Leave it. So I'm really trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=440.8s	440.8	 show her that leaving things alone by default like this is the way to behave when presented
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=445.7s	445.7	 with a distraction. Now we're at one of the lawn areas here in city park. We'll let Inertia take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=450.2s	450.2	 this new park area in and experience it for a minute. Inertia, let's walk up this way a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=454.6s	454.6	 bit. Come on. Oh, look at her. She's like, I really want to pay attention to these guys. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=460.2s	460.2	 let her right now. So you can see she's thrown off there a little bit. Some people came up to talk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=465.6s	465.6	 to us. She's like, Whoa, you guys are loud and crazy, but it's New Orleans. So she's definitely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=469.8s	469.8	 going to have to get used to that. She rebounded really well though. But I took my attention off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=473.5s	473.5	 of them and onto the situation. Once I saw her reaction. Oh, see, we have a kite over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=479.4s	479.4	 That looks weird to her. I didn't know a kite was going to be here. So let me train her to wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=484.1s	484.1	 Okay. She's not waiting. Let me, I think I can get her to do it though. Wait. Yes. Do you want this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=489.5s	489.5	 Okay. She doesn't want the treat, but she's generalizing weight to some degree. So I had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=494.4s	494.4	 to really reiterate weight a few too many times, but it's a loose leash. There's a kite flying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=499.4s	499.4	 around out there. I'll take it for a five month old dog. See if she'll play with the toy in public.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=505.1s	505.1	 Here you go. A little interested in the toy. Remember it's common for dogs to be much less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=510.6s	510.6	 interested in playing when they're in a new place. The more you do it, the more likely they'll play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=515.0s	515.0	 in the future though. She's not so much in the mood to play now. Maybe I'll check later. Maybe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=518.5s	518.5	 I'll check tomorrow. Another successful outing. I feel like inertia has learned more about her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=523.6s	523.6	 world out here today, which was our objective. If you like having a written guide to lessons like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=528.1s	528.1	 this, my books make perfect companions to these episodes. You can get them both for around $25
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=533.1s	533.1	 on Amazon. I'll have links below. Are you serious inertia? Oh my goodness. Inertia is five months
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=539.5s	539.5	 old and she's been sleeping on a bed. Had no issue with it. Like chewing has not been an issue with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=546.1s	546.1	 her because I've been controlling her environment. She's been good with her bed. So I've been leaving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=550.4s	550.4	 her with her bed, but look at this new behavior is emerging. Inertia, we certainly can't have this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=555.8s	555.8	 Our housekeepers inadvertently put this secondary bed that we have over here. This is actually not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=560.6s	560.6	 her main bed, which is probably why she's suddenly reacting to it like this. You know what? Before I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=565.6s	565.6	 just take that from her, let me see if I can get her attention off of it. Hey, over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=571.2s	571.2	 Inertia, leave it alone. She knows, leave it. Good. Come on over here. What's this? I got a treat. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=576.6s	576.6	 Sit. Good. Wait. I'm going to give her a small treat there. I was able to at least momentarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=583.5s	583.5	 get her attention off of this bed. This is why you want to be very careful about leaving your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=588.2s	588.2	 dog alone with a bed. You want to be pretty confident they're not going to chew and all beds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=592.9s	592.9	 are not the same. So since this is not her regular bed and it accidentally got placed in there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=598.2s	598.2	 she viewed that as something different. Notice how she's not running out of the crate. I've been very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=603.2s	603.2	 consistent about enforcing weight every time I open the crate. Let's get up all the fuzzies here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=608.9s	608.9	 because this can be a real health hazard. I'm curious to see if she now generalizes this when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=614.6s	614.6	 I put her old bed back in. The quick answer to get your dog to stop chewing is to be very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=619.8s	619.8	 about managing their surroundings so that they don't inadvertently chew something that they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=624.6s	624.6	 not allowed to. But secondly, you have to give them lots of exposure to things that are chewable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=629.2s	629.2	 and teaching them how to behave while you're observing them around those things. With that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=632.8s	632.8	 first bed, I really observed her to make sure she was going to behave appropriately with it before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=637.3s	637.3	 I left her alone with it and she's done fine with that bed. But this one, she didn't generalize it so well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=645.8s	645.8	 Thank you for not chewing that. Good girl. Can you settle?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=650.6s	650.6	 Nice job. Oh, she's acquiring those perfect eyes that make it real hard to say no to anything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=656.4s	656.4	 I want to start teaching Inertia how to back up when I ask her to. So that's something we're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=661.2s	661.2	 to work on right now. I've got a couple of ideas in mind. I'm going to start by trying to lure her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=666.5s	666.5	 backwards. I think I'll use the clicker for this. The clicker is something we use to communicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=670.6s	670.6	 when our dogs do something we like. Our dogs learn that the click sound means that they're getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=674.7s	674.7	 something great, like a wonderful treat. I've noticed that when she's getting into the heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=678.9s	678.9	 position, sometimes I'll encourage her to back up a little bit and she kind of does it in this real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=683.8s	683.8	 specific scenario. I'm hoping that we can build on that real specific contextual backup in order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=689.4s	689.4	 to teach her a more generalized backup. Let's do a heel. Wait. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=697.1s	697.1	 Yes. Oh, that was interesting. Do you see her brainstorming? It's a crooked backup. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=701.7s	701.7	 look at that. She's really used to watching this treat and going where this treat goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=705.7s	705.7	 when we're doing our basic heel training like this. Okay, come on. Wait. Little far ahead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=713.8s	713.8	 Wait, stand. That's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=720.4s	720.4	 Here, this way. Good. Heel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=726.2s	726.2	 Yes. Good. It's really fragile. I'm going to put the treat a little bit farther down. Yes. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=735.8s	735.8	 Yes. That's really good. This is the very beginning of it. Still a long way to go. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=740.2s	740.2	 still really contingent upon a lure and her getting used to the muscle memory that it takes. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=746.9s	746.9	 Yeah. What? Good girl. Jackpot. Good looking backup. We're going to continue to work on that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=753.3s	753.3	 Ultimately, you want your dog to be able to just back up when you back up or walk forward or just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=757.3s	757.3	 do it because you ask them to while you stay still. There's a lot of variations of backup in her future.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=762.6s	762.6	 We've talked a lot about teaching inertia weight in various contexts. For example, wait at the door,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=768.8s	768.8	 wait when we're about to teach her how to do a trick like bow so we can have a really hold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=772.8s	772.8	 a standing position. Teaching your dog to wait or stay or hold their position or whatever you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=777.5s	777.5	 want to call it in a variety of different contexts is hugely important. At some point in your dog's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=782.4s	782.4	 life, it may very well happen that I don't know for whatever reason they're across the street
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=787.8s	787.8	 and they're running to you and you may need to have them hold that weight because perhaps you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=791.7s	791.7	 see a car coming. So it's time to start teaching an emergency weight to inertia. I'm going to start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=796.9s	796.9	 this inside before I do it outside for obvious reasons. It's harder for a dog to pay attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=801.5s	801.5	 outside. I guess I'm going to throw this treat down there, have her go get the treat, call her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=806.1s	806.1	 back and then see if she'll hold the weight when I ask her to on the way back. Inertia come, wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=810.9s	810.9	 Kind of, I had to cheat it a little bit but she did make an effort. Let me see that again. Go get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=819.5s	819.5	 Wait. Yes, good girl. Okay, I just wanted to rush in there and reward because that was better than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=826.9s	826.9	 I expected. She held the weight at the halfway point on the way back. That was really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=831.9s	831.9	 Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=838.0s	838.0	 Circling around her and walking behind her like this increases the difficulty of this exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=842.6s	842.6	 as dogs generally like to get up and follow us wherever we go. Okay, good job. Wow, that was so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=851.0s	851.0	 good. I want to see what happens if when she's in play mode if I can enforce the weight. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=856.2s	856.2	 Oh, okay. Now look, see if that was a squirrel running across the street, she would have failed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=861.3s	861.3	 that test. This is why we train. I'm going to keep it random. I'm just going to play an easy game of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=865.7s	865.7	 fetch here. Come on. And then on this next one, I'm going to throw weight at her. I'm going to ask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=869.8s	869.8	 her to wait. Let go. Wait. Oh, leave it alone. So it hit her late. Leave it alone. That's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=877.5s	877.5	 That was a good effort. Over here and wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=886.2s	886.2	 Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=894.0s	894.0	 Okay, wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=899.4s	899.4	 She didn't see that coming. She hasn't trained for that multiple squeaky toys flying through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=903.7s	903.7	 the air right at her. But that's a test ultimately that she's got to be able to pass before we would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=908.9s	908.9	 ever even think about considering her semi reliable on her training, whether in private
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=913.8s	913.8	 or public. Let's try that again. Wait. Wait. Back is turned. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=926.6s	926.6	 Okay, go get it. So I'll let her chase after that toy as a reward there. So that was a nice little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=932.2s	932.2	 training drill. She's doing great. You'll see me doing this out on walks. If I see a dog in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=936.4s	936.4	 distance, I'll have her hold her weight. It's just something that you really can't practice too much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=941.6s	941.6	 And in my view, you should really reinforce it and let your dog know that there are fewer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=946.1s	946.1	 better things that they can do than hold a solid weight. When you ask, check out the real world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=951.6s	951.6	 settle. This is how I want her to behave most of the time when out of her crate and inside a house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=957.4s	957.4	 We're still a ways away from this, but this is a good time. So I'm just going to let her exist out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=961.8s	961.8	 here. Okay. That didn't last long. The mailman classic inertia. Come on. Good job. That's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=969.8s	969.8	 Thank you for letting me know. I don't mind that park. There's an organic distraction right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=974.1s	974.1	 Settle. Awesome. Just after she saw the mailman, I was able to get her into a settle when I asked.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=982.6s	982.6	 Nice job. Very good. Indy recently had some lumps removed and she has some minor stitches. So we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=988.0s	988.0	 have the cone on her head. I know that if I take inertia out of the crate that she's going to want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=993.3s	993.3	 to see Indy, but I need to teach her to kind of settle down, actually leave her alone. I thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=997.9s	997.9	 this would be a good time to practice doing that. You got to leave Indy alone. No, we're not playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1002.6s	1002.6	 with Indy right now. Even though you want to play with Indy, you can't just because you feel like it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1006.5s	1006.5	 all the time. Inertia, come on. Indy stay. I'm going to remove her over here. See if we can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1014.2s	1014.2	 her to hold a settle. Can you lie down? Good job. I've got to keep her away from Indy right now. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1021.2s	1021.2	 Okay. Good job. Indy come. I've called Indy over here just to make it a little more tempting for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1029.3s	1029.3	 inertia. Yes. Oh, come here. Come here. Come here. Come here. You got to leave her alone. Can you lie down?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1039.0s	1039.0	 Relax. You're doing a great job. Both of you are doing a great job. That's a nice little training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1043.0s	1043.0	 exercise that we've been doing. So we'll do short training sessions like this. Okay. All done. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1047.9s	1047.9	 not going to play. You did a good job of leaving Indy alone. And this is another wonderful example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1052.6s	1052.6	 of inertia practicing self-control. I've been enforcing weight right here in a variety of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1057.6s	1057.6	 different ways. Weight. I'm pulling on her. See how she's still not going. Even when I pull on her,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1062.7s	1062.7	 I'm trying to make it super reliable. Good girl. Weight. Back up. That's good. Wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1070.6s	1070.6	 Okay. Good. A really good example of environment as the reward. I'm hoping that this training lesson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1076.0s	1076.0	 is going to be treat free because I have no treats. I've been struggling with getting inertia to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1080.6s	1080.6	 interested in the frisbee. As you know, sometimes she's into it and we have an awesome session,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1084.9s	1084.9	 but probably 60% of the time she's not into it, especially lately. In fact, right now what I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1089.8s	1089.8	 dealing with, she's regressing back into leash biting. She loves biting on this as we run around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1094.6s	1094.6	 Hey, what's this? See? No interest. I'm going to actually focus on the leave it lesson with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1100.3s	1100.3	 leash. I'm obviously not going to be able to get much frisbee practice in if she's focused on biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1105.1s	1105.1	 on the leash. See this? Leave it. Good. Come on. Let's go. Leave it. Good. I was just anticipating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1112.2s	1112.2	 that she was going to go for the leash. Inertia. Come on. That's puppy stuff. Leave the leash alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1117.8s	1117.8	 Come on. Let's go. Good. Yes. How about this way? I'm using a 30 foot lead today. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1125.0s	1125.0	 Leave it. Good. Perfect. Come on. Leave it alone. Good girl. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1136.6s	1136.6	 Leave it alone. I want to do a frisbee lesson, but unless I can get her attention off the lead,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1140.3s	1140.3	 I can't do much frisbee training. We've got a lot working against us. She's not that interested in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1145.0s	1145.0	 the frisbee. Number one. Secondly, she's heavily distracted by the lead. And finally, she almost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1150.3s	1150.3	 never does frisbee outside of our main yard. It's kind of a new environment. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1154.8s	1154.8	 Come on. Come around and go. Ah, she kind of lit up there. That was good. Ready? Go get it. There
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1161.8s	1161.8	 we go. There's a spark. I'm taking a step back and rolling it, trying to get those sparks going.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1166.3s	1166.3	 Ready? Go. Oh, she's tracking it. If only I could throw, she'd be all right. Good girl. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1175.4s	1175.4	 Good. That's her longest catch ever. I believe. Come on girl. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1182.2s	1182.2	 Come on. Come around. Go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1187.5s	1187.5	 Good girl. And I'm really trying to keep those throws nice and low right now because of her age.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1192.2s	1192.2	 Don't want her doing a lot of jumping. I think we'll stop right there because it's hard as I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1196.0s	1196.0	 working to get her interested. I don't want to overdo it either. And I also like ending on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1199.9s	1199.9	 high note. If you're still buying your pet's food, the old food is the best. I think it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1204.4s	1204.4	 food the old fashioned way. Stop it. Decide what your favorite food is and tell PetFlow how often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1209.8s	1209.8	 you want it at your front door. Get $10 off your first three orders when you use discount code
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1214.9s	1214.9	 Zack30. I'll have that link and code in the description below. Subscribe to keep up with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1219.3s	1219.3	 Inertia's progress. Follow us on Instagram and TikTok too. If you're an overachiever,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1223.5s	1223.5	 get my books to really study the methods you saw in this episode. Next time, I'll continue to show
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1228.0s	1228.0	 Inertia how to properly take a neighborhood walk without losing her mind. See you guys in the next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPwQWasg4eU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=305&pp=iAQB&t=1232.9s	1232.9	 episode.
