https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I don't know how to get down so she's barking because she wants to get back here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=6.4s	6.4	 I'm Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=11.5s	11.5	 I'm taking you along as I train her from day one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 You can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning. Welcome to the dog training experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 Today, we'll see what it's like living on the road with a four-month-old puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=24.7s	24.7	 Having a new puppy has reminded me how important it is not to ever run out of puppy food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=29.6s	29.6	 And it always seems to be an inconvenient time every time you run out of puppy food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=33.5s	33.5	 Get your pets food the 21st century way by going to pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=37.1s	37.1	 All you do is choose your pets food and tell them how often you want it delivered
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=41.4s	41.4	 That's it and you eliminate all of your emergency runs to the store to get your dog's food to make the service easy to try
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=48.1s	48.1	 Enter code Zack 30 to get $10 off your first three automatic shipments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 Today is an exciting day because I'm going to take my dog inertia to Atlanta
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=58.4s	58.4	 That's my hometown where I have lots of family because my family hasn't seen my dog as a puppy yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=62.4s	62.4	 So I thought this was a good opportunity to show you guys kind of how I prepare for a road trip the things that I bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=67.2s	67.2	 In order to keep inertia happy. I've got some different leashes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=70.3s	70.3	 This is a 15-foot leash to give me some options because I don't want to let her just have the run of the house and houses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=76.4s	76.4	 That she's never been in before I've got a six-foot leash when I need to keep her more contained and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=81.3s	81.3	 Assuming we can find a nice park to work at I've got a nice long retractable leash to give her some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=86.6s	86.6	 free roaming space on those longer walks to where she can just check out the environment and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=91.5s	91.5	 Explore two bowls one for food one for water a nice fun unconventional ball one of her favorite plush toys. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=102.7s	102.7	 Think she's ready to go right now. I'm just going to ignore that barking for now. She heard the squeak
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=109.0s	109.0	 Can I have a settle excuse me while I try to get this barking under control
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 Relax good girl since she's just under four months of age. She's gonna need lots of things to chew on so I've got this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=122.2s	122.2	 I've got a little plastic thing. I've got these beef tendon shoes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=125.4s	125.4	 So she should have a decent variety as far as currency goes for food. I'm gonna be bringing cheese
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=133.0s	133.0	 Can you settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=134.7s	134.7	 Thank you good girl the good thing about these little packs is that they keep well for traveling whereas keeping real meat with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=140.7s	140.7	 Might be kind of tough. I also have some other dog treats that she might like of course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=144.5s	144.5	 I've got my clicker got a brush here to make sure she looks good for everybody got wipes for to keep her clean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 Of course if she has an accident we have to be fully prepared for that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=152.9s	152.9	 So we've got stain remover and paper towels and a couple of ways to transport her water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=157.4s	157.4	 So a bigger water jug and one of these these are great right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=161.3s	161.3	 You can squeeze it out and you have a bowl of water everywhere you go and of course, we've got her food, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=166.0s	166.0	 So that's it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=166.9s	166.9	 I'm ready to get on the road in my personal experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=169.2s	169.2	 Most dogs tend to really just get hypnotized by the road and go to sleep inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=174.5s	174.5	 Has been sleeping pretty much the whole time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=176.9s	176.9	 We haven't heard much out of her at all and the reason for that is that we've exercised her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=181.2s	181.2	 She's had some training today, and she probably feels content. Hopefully she'll sleep through the night though. That's gonna be interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=187.0s	187.0	 We're at a Tesla supercharging stop right now and I'm going to show you more about how we travel with a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=192.5s	192.5	 We have inertia back here. You can see that she is in her travel carrier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=196.3s	196.3	 This is how I feel safest transporting a dog having a dedicated crate for them is especially the puppy the way that I like to do it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=203.3s	203.3	 Wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=204.3s	204.3	 The nurse has been doing really good on weight at the crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=207.2s	207.2	 Okay, come on. Good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=208.5s	208.5	 Now you'll want to make sure that your dog's harness is super secure on them because you don't have the safety net when you're traveling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=214.6s	214.6	 We double-checked hers to make sure it is there's not a fence area. You're often by an area where there's a lot of cars
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=220.2s	220.2	 Good girl. She went pee. That's good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=222.8s	222.8	 We're stopping every couple of hours because we have a dog that isn't quite four months old yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=227.8s	227.8	 You want to give them ample opportunities to go?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=230.0s	230.0	 So every couple of hours is pretty good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=231.6s	231.6	 If you have an older dog, you might be able to travel for longer periods of time when you're taking a road trip
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=236.4s	236.4	 You have a lot on your mind and maybe it might be easy to forget to give your dog some water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=240.8s	240.8	 So pack extra water with you and offer it to them at every break
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=244.7s	244.7	 Some dogs get car sick and they get kind of queasy when you travel if that's your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=248.6s	248.6	 Give them a light meal so that they're less likely to lose their breakfast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=252.8s	252.8	 I exercised inertia before the trip
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=255.0s	255.0	 But if you have a high-energy dog or a fairly energetic one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=258.2s	258.2	 It's if at all possible do some playtime with them at your stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=260.9s	260.9	 Maybe some fetch if you can find an area or certainly a short walk might be a good idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=264.9s	264.9	 That'll also encourage better behavior on the trip if they tend to get a little antsy in the car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=269.4s	269.4	 She's still under that critical socialization age of eight months of age
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=273.4s	273.4	 So every new experience every new place is a welcomed opportunity when you have a dog this young today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=279.2s	279.2	 We stopped two or three times. That's two or three new places in one day. All right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=283.9s	283.9	 Put her back in there and she's gonna go back to sleep. It looks like nice and comfy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=288.2s	288.2	 So I'm gonna be staying with my dad and his whole basement is available for us. Hopefully that works out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=293.6s	293.6	 I've never stayed in this basement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=295.9s	295.9	 Okay, we made it to Atlanta and my dad is extremely anxious to meet inertia for the very first time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=301.3s	301.3	 However inertia not so much. She looks a little nervous of my dad right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=305.2s	305.2	 She's like why is this guy on the ground over here?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=307.4s	307.4	 I'm trying to encourage my dad to be calm as his enthusiasm is met by skepticism from inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=312.9s	312.9	 Turns out dad training is tougher than dog training. Let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=317.2s	317.2	 When you get down that throws her off, I think your excitement really makes her nervous. It looks like you really want to say hi
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=322.9s	322.9	 Dad's more excited than she is. Just let her come up and smell you. She'll do there. She goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=328.4s	328.4	 That's good. She's jumping while I generally discourage my dog jumping on people in this case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=333.4s	333.4	 It's a sign that she's more comfortable always consider context when your dog is behaving a certain way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=341.2s	341.2	 She's good she just needs a minute sometimes okay, she loves her grandpa check now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=346.2s	346.2	 Let me introduce her to this new place a little bit more formally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=349.2s	349.2	 Maybe we should give her a bigger leash right now to explore since she's been cooped up all day. This is very encouraging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=353.4s	353.4	 She's playing fetch in a new state
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=355.4s	355.4	 Usually dogs are too preoccupied in new places to focus on games like fetch which would be just fine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=360.8s	360.8	 But this shows she is capable of focusing on me in some new outdoor places
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=365.4s	365.4	 That was pretty good because I mean she's never experienced grass like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=368.8s	368.8	 I mean even small things like a different species of Atlanta grass can be distracting factors in your training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=374.4s	374.4	 The first thing I really want to do is show her the proper place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=376.9s	376.9	 Which is either out here, but she's gonna be going in the back a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=379.8s	379.8	 So let's go there, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=381.0s	381.0	 This is her potty area back here, and I'm gonna let inertia get familiar with it smell around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=385.9s	385.9	 She seems to be really interested in the smell of the tree and rather than waiting until you think they absolutely have to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=392.1s	392.1	 It's a good idea to get them nice and comfortable when you have some time to show them okay, so she's doing well outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=398.7s	398.7	 Let's go see what's going on inside. This is inertia sleeping area over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=403.6s	403.6	 I'm just getting her used to this crate right here because it's smaller than the one that she usually uses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=408.3s	408.3	 It's really important to make sure that you control your puppy's environment all of the time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=413.2s	413.2	 But especially in new places you can think of a crate like this as a crib for a baby
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=418.0s	418.0	 It keeps them safe and out of trouble
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=420.0s	420.0	 But we've set it up really close to where we sleep so that we can keep an eye on her obviously
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=424.0s	424.0	 Keep her from waking my dad up upstairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=426.0s	426.0	 And you might also notice that we're right by the door so I can easily get her to come in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=430.5s	430.5	 I can easily let her out in the middle of the night if I have to or first thing in the morning or whatever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=436.6s	436.6	 She has to go out, but I want to be mindful of the amount of time that she's spending in the crate as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=440.9s	440.9	 Even though I'm out of town. I'm here to visit family. I can't forget about her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=443.9s	443.9	 I've got to make sure she's getting her exercise. I can't just leave her in here while I go off and visit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=448.0s	448.0	 I'm hoping to give her lots of exposure to people and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=451.1s	451.1	 Also get her comfortable in the crate when I definitely need my alone time, but so far. She's doing a great job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=457.3s	457.3	 Good job. Okay. Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=459.0s	459.0	 I'm about to take inertia on a walk, but I want to do some warm-up training drills with her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=463.2s	463.2	 We've been working on heel indoors. She's not ready to do this outside. I love how she's looking at me there here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=468.3s	468.3	 I'm simply proofing getting her attention a basic look at me is a great way to measure if she's in a teachable mindset
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=474.8s	474.8	 Leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=476.3s	476.3	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=477.6s	477.6	 This way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=479.2s	479.2	 Yes, good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=481.5s	481.5	 Look at me good. Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=484.3s	484.3	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=486.4s	486.4	 Notice how she's holding that stand we've been working on that and she's not automatically going into the sit. Look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=492.3s	492.3	 We're not focused on heel now now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=494.1s	494.1	 I'm just focused on making sure she'll walk on leash in this new place doing a good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=498.6s	498.6	 Things are looking so good in this new place. It's wonderful not having these additional family distractions around right now. Hey dad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=505.7s	505.7	 How are you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=507.0s	507.0	 Yeah, come on come say good morning to YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=509.3s	509.3	 And now she does tend to pee when she gets excited yep right there we've been dealing with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=514.0s	514.0	 Excitement urination right here inertia has been struggling struggling with excitement urination
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=519.4s	519.4	 It's really common with puppies when they get excited. They just can't control their excitement. They start peeing everywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=524.3s	524.3	 That's something typically dogs will outgrow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=526.3s	526.3	 But in the meantime you can take them outside before they're likely to get excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=530.3s	530.3	 Encourage your greeters to greet them a little less excitedly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=533.8s	533.8	 Of course, my dad doesn't listen to me at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=536.4s	536.4	 But it's not really a potty training issue because the behavior is completely involuntary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=540.5s	540.5	 No doubt having dad here is making my training more difficult for inertia as she is distracted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=545.6s	545.6	 But this is the real world so let's take advantage of having this distraction present
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=550.6s	550.6	 Can you turn out here? Oh well she loves her grandpa
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=555.3s	555.3	 There's still work to do let's go out into the wild and do some training now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=559.1s	559.1	 I've driven to a local park here to give inertia some room to walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=563.6s	563.6	 And check out the new place this is less of a training walk and more of a explore and have a good time walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=569.0s	569.0	 Hence the retractable leash over here if you are going to use a retractable leash don't be obnoxious about it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=575.0s	575.0	 When you know that there's going to be people around make sure you shorten it so your dog's not just running up to people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=579.9s	579.9	 Oh, there's a dog coming up over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=581.8s	581.8	 So let's go over here because I don't want to create an excited situation, but this is nice and shaded
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=586.6s	586.6	 This gives her room to explore ready
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=589.2s	589.2	 Go get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=591.4s	591.4	 Her playtime outside is still quite intermittent it really just depends on her mood
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=595.9s	595.9	 I expect that to change with time though that's really typical of dogs regardless of age early in their training with fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=603.1s	603.1	 They're less interested in it than they will be in the future when they start playing fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=607.2s	607.2	 So their interest slowly intensifies over time assuming that you continue to try and work with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=612.5s	612.5	 If I catch her in a moment where she's feeling playful then I'll try and encourage her to play fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=616.6s	616.6	 Otherwise I'm happy for her to just accept that she's playing fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=619.8s	619.8	 I'm happy for her to just explore the great land of Georgia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=622.8s	622.8	 I found a basketball court here that's nice and fenced in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=626.2s	626.2	 I'm going to close this door see if I can get her running around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=630.7s	630.7	 Of course this is a rough pavement so I don't want to encourage rough play too much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=634.9s	634.9	 And Urshua come on what's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=638.0s	638.0	 Get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=641.0s	641.0	 Come on you want to play? Okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=643.6s	643.6	 So I thought I'd try and play in here since we have this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=646.5s	646.5	 Enclosed area but look still doesn't want to play with the toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=649.7s	649.7	 When we say a dog is overstimulated this is what we're talking about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=652.7s	652.7	 They're just really really interested in everything around them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=655.9s	655.9	 And I can't underestimate the importance of really satisfying your dog mentally and physically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=660.3s	660.3	 When you're out of town with them because remember the most significant way that you can throw off a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=665.0s	665.0	 Is to dramatically change their surroundings and environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=667.8s	667.8	 And when you go to a new house and a new city with new smells and new people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=673.0s	673.0	 And a new routine and everything that can really cause a dog to act
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=677.0s	677.0	 Unpleasantly uncharacteristically by letting her explore by getting her energy out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=682.2s	682.2	 That we keep her training routine up she's likely to adjust much better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=686.1s	686.1	 We have a bit of a spark here she's taking an interest in a tennis ball so that's exciting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=692.4s	692.4	 Good sometimes switching up the toy help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=695.7s	695.7	 The goal is to be able to get her to play fetch anywhere anytime
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=699.0s	699.0	 And time will tell if we ever get there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=700.8s	700.8	 There good yes ready go get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=706.2s	706.2	 People so we'll stop before she gets bored we'll continue on our walk now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=710.8s	710.8	 So these walks are kind of a combination of walk explore let's see if you want to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=715.0s	715.0	 Check out new things new dogs new people at a distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=718.1s	718.1	 There's just a lot of things to kind of consider on these walks I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=721.4s	721.4	 So she's doing really well with that weed whacker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=723.5s	723.5	 A few weeks ago she was really scared of those that's encouraging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=727.4s	727.4	 Now that she's like taking a walk she's kind of gotten some energy out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=731.7s	731.7	 This is a good time to work on some of her basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=734.2s	734.2	 Let's see how responsive she is in this new highly distracting place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=737.8s	737.8	 Remember we don't have pine straw like this where I'm from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=741.0s	741.0	 Every little thing like pine cones completely new variable to her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=745.4s	745.4	 And they're quite fragrant to us I can only imagine how she smells and processes these things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=750.1s	750.1	 But I do know one thing I do know that when we give our dogs exercise and attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=754.8s	754.8	 That they're more likely to pay attention to us than if we don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=758.5s	758.5	 What's this you want a treat can I have a sit oh very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=762.4s	762.4	 So I love that I love that we're getting a sit out here in a public environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=766.2s	766.2	 Okay come here right here I'm just doing some of the more easy things that she knows like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=770.8s	770.8	 Sit and calm I'm having to use a treat right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=773.3s	773.3	 I think if I weren't using treats she wouldn't be very responsive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=776.2s	776.2	 It's important to use a good currency for an extended period of time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=779.4s	779.4	 Let's try that heel in this outdoor environment see if I can get her into that heel position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=783.6s	783.6	 Come here want this can you yes good holding the stand all right yes good pretty good look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=795.2s	795.2	 Okay yes oh too far too far come here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=801.1s	801.1	 Wait good wait okay yes look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=808.7s	808.7	 Yes look at me yes sit I'm gonna actually ask for the sit now so really good this might not look like much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=818.7s	818.7	 But just taking these small steps in this environment keeping her on my left side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=823.6s	823.6	 Doing this general training is a really good sign for a dog that isn't even four months old yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=827.8s	827.8	 And with the weed whacker in the background too it's time to go catch up with my sister and her boyfriend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=832.1s	832.1	 Upon arriving and Ursa had a barking outburst that was pretty challenging for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=835.8s	835.8	 So in this case I elected to manage her by simply picking her up and carrying her inside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=840.4s	840.4	 Rather than dedicating a full-on training session to this we finally made it inside we got inertia quiet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=845.9s	845.9	 I'm hanging out over here at my sister's house and just really trying to show inertia how to be good and behave well when in new places
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=853.1s	853.1	 I love this position I love that she's relaxed here so I'm gonna say okay I'm gonna give her a piece of meat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=858.4s	858.4	 And I'll just continue to acknowledge the calm ideal place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=862.2s	862.2	 This is my sister's boyfriend he likes to periodically wear a Deadpool mask whatever to each their own
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=869.0s	869.0	 Oh look at that yep that's a mask it's okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=874.2s	874.2	 The pilot back there and Ursa is thrown off by that can you give me a sit?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=878.6s	878.6	 Why don't we take the mask off for a second and then let her see that there's a human in there that's gonna trip her out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=883.6s	883.6	 Look at that okay I know not much different huh and now maybe walk over slowly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=888.2s	888.2	 See if she reacts no she's yeah she's like I know you I remember you from a few minutes ago
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=893.0s	893.0	 She's okay when he's not wearing the mask put it on in front of her and let's see what that does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=896.9s	896.9	 I know so interesting and now call her over inertia yeah make some move your hands yeah exactly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=904.4s	904.4	 I mean just like that okay so now it's like oh I get it sometimes humans wear masks right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=909.4s	909.4	 It's fine and here I'm gonna tolerate the jumping just because she was scared I like that she's not wearing a mask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=915.4s	915.4	 That is more important to me than the fact that she's behaving a little wildly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=921.8s	921.8	 So if you ever want to take your dog to a convention and you want to socialize your dog with people wearing masks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=927.1s	927.1	 Maybe you're at cosplay or it's Halloween or you want them to be nice to burglars
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=931.7s	931.7	 I don't say you're at cosplay oh is that not right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=936.6s	936.6	 It was a fun visit with my sister now we're on the way to North Point Mall to see my dad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=941.6s	941.6	 My dad has a jewelry store I thought this would be a good opportunity to show inertia like an indoor retail environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=947.8s	947.8	 So we'll see how she does I'm gonna obviously give her a potty break before we go into a shopping mall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=952.9s	952.9	 Because it's no fun if your dog is peeing or pooping inside of a mall now that I've instructed my dad to be nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=958.7s	958.7	 And calm when he greets inertia since she pees when excited we'll see how that goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=965.0s	965.0	 There's the pee look at that okay so that didn't go quite as planned oh well we're coming in the back way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=970.8s	970.8	 You know through the secret entrance into the shopping mall here's a great opportunity to introduce inertia to the staff you want to say hi
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=978.9s	978.9	 Come here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=980.9s	980.9	 What's this you want that I know say hi
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=984.8s	984.8	 There you go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=986.8s	986.8	 Oh wow look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=989.4s	989.4	 There you go. Yes, I like how she's settling kind of quickly so that's good yet another new place a completely different environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=996.1s	996.1	 And she seems to be going into her settle after just a few moments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=999.9s	999.9	 So I want to reinforce that give her a little bit of meat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1002.9s	1002.9	 The idea is you take your dog to so many places that they all just become normal like new places are just the normal thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1008.3s	1008.3	 We do so there's no need to act really crazy just because you go to a new place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1012.1s	1012.1	 Environment causes dogs to act more uncharacteristically than anything else just about and so now we're going to go from this back area
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1018.3s	1018.3	 Into the pretty jewelry part and see how she does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1020.8s	1020.8	 Give me a hug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1023.7s	1023.7	 So, yeah, you can see how she's uninterested in my dad all of a sudden here because there's new smells new things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1029.8s	1029.8	 Let's go see what else we can see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1032.8s	1032.8	 Look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1034.4s	1034.4	 Good love the way she's reacting just because we're out here. It's not the same as back there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1039.1s	1039.1	 Everything's a little bit different. She wants to check out all of the new stuff going on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1043.3s	1043.3	 Let's see if she'll do something basic like white out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1045.9s	1045.9	 So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1048.5s	1048.5	 Good so that's a sign that she's not so overwhelmed that she can't pay attention to me good nice. Can you give me a leave it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1057.4s	1057.4	 Good inertia is really adjusting. Well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1060.9s	1060.9	 Well, she was but that's gonna be normal for puppies. They're going to relax. They're gonna get up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1065.1s	1065.1	 They're gonna smell around but as long as her overall behavior is decent and she's behaving politely. I'm happy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1071.0s	1071.0	 Let's go check out one of my favorite spots in atlanta today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1074.2s	1074.2	 To piedmont park piedmont park is one of my favorite parks in atlanta real sentimental to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1079.0s	1079.0	 And it's a wonderful place to spend time with your dog. Come on. That person's just running. Come on this way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1088.6s	1088.6	 She's getting thrown off less and less by like joggers and bikers and things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1092.1s	1092.1	 But she still reacts here and there and that just underscores why it's so important to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1096.7s	1096.7	 Continually get out there and show your dogs lots of different things so they get a broad sample
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1101.5s	1101.5	 And get a clue as to how the world works you might notice I have her on the retractable leash today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1106.6s	1106.6	 I have it really restricted but since we're in a pretty open park
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1110.0s	1110.0	 I want to give her lots of room to explore
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1112.2s	1112.2	 I use a retractable leash in a very specific way not for leash training or anything like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1117.0s	1117.0	 But i'm trying to get her just into an open grassy area to smell run around in you know, that sort of thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1123.5s	1123.5	 She's pulling right now. I'm not too concerned with that as it's more important that she explore this big lawn back here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1130.1s	1130.1	 Was the site of a frisbee dog competition I did years ago every time I look at this lawn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1134.1s	1134.1	 That's what I think of you're not technically allowed to play frisbee with your dog over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1137.8s	1137.8	 But I used to do it all the time, you know dogs are supposed to be on leash, which is a good idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1143.0s	1143.0	 But my dog was really trained and she listened to me and she didn't go up to other dogs and bother people the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1148.8s	1148.8	 Wonderful site to play frisbee with your dog in all of atlanta and unfortunately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1154.1s	1154.1	 You're not allowed so far as much as playing frisbee with my dogs was a big part of my past with my dog something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1160.4s	1160.4	 I really love doing I haven't done it with inertia until this very moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1164.6s	1164.6	 Really i've shown her the frisbee before but i've not really done a lesson or showed her how to grab the frisbee and right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1171.2s	1171.2	 I'm loving this. This is great because she was tuning out but she looks so into it right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1175.5s	1175.5	 It's like she can detect she's in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1177.9s	1177.9	 frisbee playing territory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1179.7s	1179.7	 So let's have a little impromptu lesson here now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1181.7s	1181.7	 I do have to admit that if I had planned this frisbee lesson for you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1185.6s	1185.6	 I would have her on a 15 foot lead rather than trying to use this retractable leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1190.7s	1190.7	 But it'll work for a brief lesson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1192.3s	1192.3	 The first thing that you should do when you're teaching your dog to play frisbee is teach them how to grab it from the rim
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1197.2s	1197.2	 We call it a take so let's see. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1202.3s	1202.3	 See how she's not grabbing it at the rim she's going above she's like trying to grab it here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1206.5s	1206.5	 She's like, how do I grab this thing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1208.7s	1208.7	 Yes, good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1210.4s	1210.4	 Very good. It's not necessarily intuitive for a dog to just bite it like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1214.7s	1214.7	 Look look how she's trying to get control of it by putting her head under it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1218.7s	1218.7	 It doesn't quite know what to do. What's this? But I don't want her to lose interest. Yeah
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1223.5s	1223.5	 Good what is this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1227.1s	1227.1	 See getting it up from underneath is that how I do it so she's not really feeling the take it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1231.4s	1231.4	 I don't want her to lose interest in the training session by dwelling on take it. She wants to chase something so i'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1236.6s	1236.6	 Adhere to her desires right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1239.0s	1239.0	 What's that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1240.0s	1240.0	 So rolling the frisbee like this can also encourage her to grab it by the rim as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1244.4s	1244.4	 Because dogs don't know how to catch a frisbee out of the air just because we think it should seem logical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1249.6s	1249.6	 I can't even tell you how happy I am that we're doing her first frisbee lesson right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1254.3s	1254.3	 If we didn't plan it that way, but I can't resist. What's that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1258.3s	1258.3	 You go good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1259.9s	1259.9	 Notice how i'm also keeping her short range. I'm not throwing it across the field
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1265.0s	1265.0	 Nice work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1266.9s	1266.9	 Good, so she's chasing it now. Let's see if she can chase it pick it up and return it again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1271.2s	1271.2	 We're not going to throw it yet. She's not ready for that. Hey inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1277.2s	1277.2	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1278.8s	1278.8	 Looks like she lost interest in it. She's distracted by a runner coming up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1282.6s	1282.6	 This is completely normal, especially in a distracting place like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1285.8s	1285.8	 Looks like our frisbee session is getting invaded by helicopters and more pedestrians and dogs walking by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1292.2s	1292.2	 Why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1293.4s	1293.4	 I know what is that? Those are people just gonna let her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1296.7s	1296.7	 Satisfy her curiosity a little bit see her pylorexia. See your hair standing up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1301.2s	1301.2	 Just means she's unsure. She's caught off guard. She's like I wasn't expecting all those people to come over here right now overall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1306.5s	1306.5	 Even though she's barking she doesn't seem too concerned. She's kind of taking steps towards them and everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1311.4s	1311.4	 This is what I like to refer to as sparking the flint when you're teaching a new game like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1315.9s	1315.9	 We're really trying to get a big fire going but she loses interest when we're sparking the flint
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1320.9s	1320.9	 Therefore we have to take a step back and try again later. We'll take a five minute break
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1324.5s	1324.5	 We'll see if she wants to revisit it or not. Okay, it's been a few minutes. Let's see how things are going now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1331.0s	1331.0	 Oh, did you see that introducing it in a different way, you know, sometimes makes a difference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1339.5s	1339.5	 Oh really good attempt right there see it's so frustrating to pick up for a dog in the beginning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1345.4s	1345.4	 Oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1347.6s	1347.6	 Look at that. Yes. Good. Come on. That's what i'm talking about. There we go. Good work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1353.1s	1353.1	 And if she wants to play tug a reward her war looks like she's really into the chase aspect of the game right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1359.8s	1359.8	 So i'll give her that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1365.2s	1365.2	 Look at her try to pick it up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1372.3s	1372.3	 Yes, yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1374.9s	1374.9	 Good yes, come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1382.5s	1382.5	 Good girl go get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1386.4s	1386.4	 Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1388.1s	1388.1	 Come on. Okay. Good job. Take a break. So general interest in the frisbee is well within range
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1394.9s	1394.9	 I'm happy with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1396.3s	1396.3	 And we still have to teach her how to do the take it she's showing promise there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1400.1s	1400.1	 But I like that she's chasing it in the future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1402.1s	1402.1	 I'm sure we'll cover her catching it in the air, but she's not ready for that just yet. Good job inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1406.9s	1406.9	 This was a great session. Meanwhile back at the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1409.5s	1409.5	 There's more training to do inertia has yet to have a formal lesson on going up and down stairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1415.3s	1415.3	 When you travel whether you're going to family's house or whatever you're going to encounter things that you realize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1420.1s	1420.1	 Hey, I didn't anticipate that with inertia. Here's a good example. This is a fairly steep staircase for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1425.7s	1425.7	 She checked this out and she was like, you know, I don't know about this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1428.7s	1428.7	 This looks a little weird. My goal is to show her how to go down these stairs comfortably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1432.6s	1432.6	 So we'll see how she does you can see she's like, whoa, I don't know see how she took a step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1437.4s	1437.4	 I don't quite know how to handle this. This is weird
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1441.2s	1441.2	 A little anxiety. She's like wait a minute come back here. I don't know how to get to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1444.9s	1444.9	 My intention is to walk her through this rather than starting up here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1449.1s	1449.1	 I think it might be smarter to start down at the bottom of the stairs just so she can kind of get the muscle memory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1454.6s	1454.6	 Intact and understand how to do stairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1456.8s	1456.8	 So let's go to the bottom of the stairs and see if we can get her taking the stairs like a champ
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1460.6s	1460.6	 I'm just gonna lure her. Yes. Good job. You got it. So she's good at putting two paws up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1465.0s	1465.0	 Can we get her up here? See going up the stairs? She's a little bit more comfortable. Oh, look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1469.3s	1469.3	 I mean so she's going up she'll go all day long but inertia
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1472.4s	1472.4	 What about you're gonna come back down? I don't know. I don't know how to get down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1475.5s	1475.5	 So she's barking because she wants to get back here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1478.6s	1478.6	 Here with this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1481.2s	1481.2	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1482.3s	1482.3	 Very good. So i'm starting at the bottom because I think it'll be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1485.9s	1485.9	 Less daunting and here i'm just luring her with the treat. Come on. What's this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1493.1s	1493.1	 Yes, good she kind of did a step in the right direction there so I want to let her know that I appreciate that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1497.9s	1497.9	 Okay, come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1499.5s	1499.5	 Yes, look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1502.3s	1502.3	 Just gonna go real slow. What you don't want to do is force your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1506.1s	1506.1	 Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1509.0s	1509.0	 Yeah, good girl you did it that was great there you go i'm gonna give her a big reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1513.9s	1513.9	 So she took like the bottom two stairs nice and easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1518.0s	1518.0	 Yeah, good job. So it's kind of like when she's really at the top it's overwhelming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1523.2s	1523.2	 But my hope is by taking the time to do this one step at a time that she'll come to adjust to it good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1530.3s	1530.3	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1531.5s	1531.5	 And see i'm here to spot her and eventually slips, you know, you do have to be careful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1535.4s	1535.4	 It is a new movement for a puppy to be going up and down stairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1538.7s	1538.7	 And this is where building trust really comes in with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1542.1s	1542.1	 You really want to build trust with them so they know they can trust you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1545.1s	1545.1	 You'll find that when you prioritize building communication with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1548.0s	1548.0	 They catch onto a lot of things like this really quick because you have this common language and the trust that you focus on building with one another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1555.2s	1555.2	 Really compounds to give you success on lessons like this. I think we're ready now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1560.1s	1560.1	 To see if she can take the whole staircase. Let's see how it goes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1563.5s	1563.5	 Oh, look at that boy. She can haul up them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1566.3s	1566.3	 All right, good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1569.2s	1569.2	 Now can you come down?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1572.9s	1572.9	 Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1575.5s	1575.5	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1577.9s	1577.9	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1580.2s	1580.2	 Yeah, good girl. Did you see how methodical she was she's just learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1584.8s	1584.8	 Inertia that was awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1586.7s	1586.7	 It may not look like much but dogs don't automatically know how to go up and down the stairs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1591.5s	1591.5	 I think this was a really productive lesson. I'll continue to monitor her and make sure she does it safely. That's your leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1597.5s	1597.5	 You don't want that staying in a new place also gives you the option to train in a new environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1602.2s	1602.2	 And it's still an indoor environment. So it's pretty easy, but it's one that she's not used to training in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1606.7s	1606.7	 So i'm going to work on some of her basic training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1609.0s	1609.0	 I know we've been hitting settle quite a bit in these episodes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1612.1s	1612.1	 But that's because I want her to be able to settle tune out and relax on cue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1616.8s	1616.8	 In future environments in future new environments, I should say good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1621.5s	1621.5	 So i'm working on that right now. She's on a long lead just so I have general control. Look at me. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1628.3s	1628.3	 Settle so i'm going to turn my back on her very often when you turn your back on your dog like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1633.0s	1633.0	 They're like, oh gosh, I better go chase them. I've been really focusing on assuming a lot of different positions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1638.2s	1638.2	 Good i'm going to reiterate settle to her just in case there's some confusion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1642.4s	1642.4	 I'm going to go up to her and then go back down the hall over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1646.8s	1646.8	 Good job pretty reliable in this calm nice easy setup training session. Let me try out of sight right here real quick settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1659.0s	1659.0	 Oh, did you see that out of sight we haven't done much training with that so that's something we can work on settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1668.2s	1668.2	 Oh, oh wow, so she's really sensitive the moment I go out of sight that's because dogs like to be near us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1673.7s	1673.7	 Settle i'm going to slow down my pace a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1676.0s	1676.0	 The reason i'm being so deliberate right here is i'm sensing the early stages of frustration from her because she's like what what did I do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1683.1s	1683.1	 Wrong. I don't understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1686.0s	1686.0	 Look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1687.2s	1687.2	 wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1688.4s	1688.4	 I'm going to focus on her now. I'm just going to watch her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1690.7s	1690.7	 I'm not going to turn my back on her because that makes it harder easy. Wait
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1696.8s	1696.8	 Okay, I need to take another step back so i'm pushing it way too much settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1703.3s	1703.3	 Okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1710.7s	1710.7	 Settle sometimes you have to break down your training into smaller goals than you originally planned for here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1716.0s	1716.0	 I'm preempting likely failure points by acknowledging success before she breaks her settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1721.8s	1721.8	 settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1725.5s	1725.5	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1727.3s	1727.3	 Good nice work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1730.0s	1730.0	 Look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1731.9s	1731.9	 Settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1735.7s	1735.7	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1738.5s	1738.5	 Turning my back this time settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1745.9s	1745.9	 Yes, very good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1750.6s	1750.6	 Settle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1752.6s	1752.6	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1757.1s	1757.1	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1757.9s	1757.9	 Okay. Good job. Very good. She got excited. I got excited there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1762.1s	1762.1	 So that's how we start like out of sight settles basically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1765.9s	1765.9	 I believe that was an extra potent training lesson because it does take place in a relatively unfamiliar environment for her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1772.0s	1772.0	 So take advantage of new places, especially when you're traveling to train your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1776.2s	1776.2	 It'll go a long way because if they get in the habit of listening to you in unfamiliar places
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1781.6s	1781.6	 Well, that's pretty amazing. It's been a great family trip here in atlanta and we're about to head back to new orleans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1787.8s	1787.8	 So I want to make sure that inertia goes potty and get some exercise before we go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1792.5s	1792.5	 Her fetch is getting better and better. She's loving this yard here where she can really run
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1797.1s	1797.1	 We're gonna get her plenty of exercise before this trip
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1799.5s	1799.5	 So she's likely to relax and sleep and just be a really good dog the whole time since you're so busy training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1804.9s	1804.9	 Don't waste time going to the store to buy dog food either set up automatic pet food delivery at pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1810.5s	1810.5	 And get ten dollars off your first three automatic shipments when you enter code zac30
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1815.0s	1815.0	 I'll have a link below follow me on instagram and tiktok to get even more videos subscribe and click that bell notification, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1821.4s	1821.4	 Get my newest book which will help you with everything dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1824.9s	1824.9	 It also has a five star rating on amazon in our next episode inertia will be back in new orleans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1829.9s	1829.9	 And we'll do her first formal training walk in a neighborhood setting instead of a wide open park
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1835.2s	1835.2	 Let's just say that things don't really go smoothly. We'll see you guys next time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1839.1s	1839.1	 inertia come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1841.4s	1841.4	 unsuccessful there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2-D6IczGeY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=312&pp=iAQB&t=1847.5s	1847.5	 You
