https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Welcome to episode one of the dog training experience. I can't believe this is actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=11.0s	11.0	 happening. We're on our way right now to go pick up my brand new puppy, Inertia. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=15.8s	15.8	 been so many years since I've had a puppy, so I'm beyond excited to go through this experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=20.3s	20.3	 once again and share the entire experience of raising and training a dog with you guys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=24.6s	24.6	 I'm on my way to Knoxville, Tennessee. Oh, look at her. Good to see you. Look at you. Hello. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=38.7s	38.7	 my gosh. Are you so cute? You got so big. You just keep growing. Stop growing. She looks great. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=47.0s	47.0	 Zach George. I train dogs and this is my new dog, Inertia. I'm taking you along as I train her from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=53.5s	53.5	 day one. You can start from the beginning or pick up anywhere and start learning. Welcome to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=59.1s	59.1	 dog training experience. First, we're going to make a stop at the vet to make sure Inertia is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=65.7s	65.7	 healthy and ready for her drive home tomorrow. Let's go get you checked out. We're hanging out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=70.0s	70.0	 at the vet right now waiting on our appointment. Got a little bit of her kibble right now. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=73.6s	73.6	 getting her used to the environment. I'm just trying to straight away get that positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=77.4s	77.4	 association going with new places. Everything checked out with her. She looks really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 We're actually going to stay in town an extra day or so. We're going to give her that additional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 socialization experience by being in the hotel. I want to condition her to a few things. Teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=90.1s	90.1	 her about the clicker, teach her about the harness, and get her collar on, all of that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=94.2s	94.2	 I just don't want to rush her into a long road trip immediately. We're back at the hotel now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=98.6s	98.6	 I've got my pup box with me because I am a customer. They actually send you stuff every single month
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=103.5s	103.5	 based on your dog's age. This is a two-month pup box. Let's see what we got here. We have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=108.3s	108.3	 some fun toys and we have different texture toy here. With a two-month-old dog, you're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=113.0s	113.0	 need stain and odor remover. I'm going to be using these treats in just a minute. Chew toys, wipes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 If you're interested in trying pup box, you can get 50% off of your first box when you sign up for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=122.6s	122.6	 a three, six, or 12-month subscription by going to pupbox.com slash Zach and using discount code
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=128.5s	128.5	 Zach. I'm going to have that link in the description below. My intention at this point is to get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=132.7s	132.7	 started with clicker training. I love clicker training because it's a really handy device that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 is very good at communicating to your dog when you like what they're doing. But first, you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=142.2s	142.2	 to teach them that this clicking sound means they're going to get a reward. I'm making them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=147.4s	147.4	 real small, about that size right there. This is a real simple process. It just takes a few minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=151.8s	151.8	 to do. Notice I'm clicking a little bit away from her. I don't want to go right in her face and click.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=156.3s	156.3	 For some dogs, that sound can startle them. See, she's looking at that clicker. So I like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=163.5s	163.5	 To be clear, the click doesn't tell your dog to do something. It simply communicates that you like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=168.7s	168.7	 what they just did. Yes, there we go. And that's kind of a magical moment. I feel like she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=174.6s	174.6	 starting to make the connection here. The first thing I want to do is get a nurse her comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 with wearing a collar, and then we'll graduate to the harness. I think it's important we go really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=183.4s	183.4	 slow with every new thing that we do with our dog just to get them really comfortable. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 let her investigate it. I like that she is taking an interest in it. I'm going to touch her on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=192.3s	192.3	 head with it. Look at that really, really healthy reaction. Let's come up under the chin here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 start to buckle it, let go. The point is I don't want to just strap it on her, wait for her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=203.3s	203.3	 freak out. I want to get her really comfortable with every little thing that I do. This builds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=207.4s	207.4	 trust in her general behavior right now. It's just outstanding. I'm so proud of you. I'm being very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=213.2s	213.2	 liberal on my rewards at this young age. You can see she's going through an adjustment period with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=218.4s	218.4	 the collar on too. She's kind of being a bit goofy like, wait, what is that on my neck? We can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=223.3s	223.3	 started with her harness. It'll let us sniff it and everything. See a lot of dogs will freak out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=227.2s	227.2	 over stuff like this because we just do this in a hurry when we're in a rush. But if you take your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=231.0s	231.0	 time in the beginning, things will go way more smoothly. I'm going to slip this over her head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=235.0s	235.0	 slowly. This can be a clumsy process for dog trainers too. Now that whole process can take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=239.8s	239.8	 anywhere between five minutes and an hour. It just depends on your dog. We're off to a good start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=244.9s	244.9	 Inersha. Doing a good job. Now I can finally leash you. Having a young dog on leash is essential.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=250.7s	250.7	 Too much freedom too early is the biggest mistake people with puppies make. And I'm determined not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=255.2s	255.2	 to make that mistake. We're going to pop the leash on and now I have control of her environment. By
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=259.8s	259.8	 the way, I cover everything dog training related in my books. They're a great way for you to stay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=264.2s	264.2	 on track whether you have a new puppy like Inersha or an older dog. Check the description for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=268.9s	268.9	 links. I'm going to let her sleep right now because she's had a long morning. I was so anxious to get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=273.7s	273.7	 her conditioned to the clicker to then put on the harness and the collar so that I can start building
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=278.7s	278.7	 this communication. Desensitizing a dog to the sounds of the world and observing how they react
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=283.5s	283.5	 to their surroundings will help you get to know a new dog better. We want to take advantage of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=288.0s	288.0	 fact that she has been so well socialized for the first few weeks of her life, which was really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=292.6s	292.6	 important to me. And as evidenced by the volume of my voice right now, she is just passed out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=298.7s	298.7	 In other words, since she appears to be in a deep sleep rather than whispering and tiptoeing around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=303.9s	303.9	 I'm intentionally speaking in a louder voice in the hope that she'll be more relaxed in the future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=309.1s	309.1	 when abrupt or loud sounds happen. With puppies, it's a good idea to expose them to a variety of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=314.4s	314.4	 sounds, both ones that occur without your expecting them and ones that you create artificially.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=320.9s	320.9	 Look at that! The loud sound that just woke her up. Which is our window being pressure washed at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=326.2s	326.2	 hotel. She reacted beautifully there. No reward is necessary as she's naturally relaxed right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=331.8s	331.8	 I'm gonna run out to the car to grab something but I want to see how she reacts to this door handle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=335.8s	335.8	 because these hotel doors, you know, they're kind of loud. Look at that. See that? Good camera work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=342.4s	342.4	 there, Producer Brie. Thank you. Too much. Look at that. So I found the point that startled her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=352.9s	352.9	 right there. That was interesting. I stopped immediately because I want to find out where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=357.2s	357.2	 her threshold is. Where does she go from being not sound sensitive to sound sensitive while sleeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=362.6s	362.6	 under these circumstances? It's always a quest to understand every thought the dog makes but we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=367.4s	367.4	 never truly understand what they're thinking but it's sure interesting to try, isn't it? And now for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=372.7s	372.7	 her first introduction to the crate. My original plan was to introduce the crate by tossing treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=378.3s	378.3	 in and encouraging inertia to go in and out of the crate. However, puppies love to sleep for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=382.6s	382.6	 extended periods of time and sleeping can be a great time to introduce them to some new things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=387.4s	387.4	 This is a bit risky but I'm going to try to pick her up, hope that she remains sleeping and place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=393.0s	393.0	 her in this crate right here with the door wide open in the spirit of slowly introducing her to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=398.7s	398.7	 new things. The point of a crate is to be able to easily control your dog's environment for short
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=402.9s	402.9	 periods of time when you cannot directly tend to them. Getting your dog comfortable with the crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=406.9s	406.9	 is a very positive thing and success but what do you do when an eight-week-old puppy awakens from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=414.2s	414.2	 a nap? She just woke up, she's probably got to go pee. Immediately taking a dog outside after they've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=419.5s	419.5	 been sleeping can be tough since most puppies will immediately want to pee. Since it's a fair
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=424.8s	424.8	 distance to the closest safe area for her to pee, I want to have an indoor option by having these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=429.6s	429.6	 pads nearby. Also by having her on leash I'm able to keep her right on the pads. This is her first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=435.4s	435.4	 experience on a leash and harness and she's doing really well. I'm just going to get right back into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=440.1s	440.1	 training because the whole theme of raising a puppy is really understanding that dogs are learning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=445.6s	445.6	 at every moment. She's having the habit of going to the ground a lot, sniffing the ground a lot,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=450.2s	450.2	 biting at the carpet. I really need to focus on getting her eyes on me so I'm just going to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=454.8s	454.8	 look at me training sessions, clicking and treating anytime I have eye contact with her just to let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=459.7s	459.7	 her know wow you look at me. I really like that because when you have your dog's eyes on you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=463.9s	463.9	 you can really communicate with them much better. I'm getting her to look at me and I'm saying her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=468.5s	468.5	 name at the same time because I want her to equate her name with looking at me. Hey that wasn't bad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=473.0s	473.0	 for a mini training session. We'll cover this in more depth in future episodes though but we really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=478.0s	478.0	 need to do some playing right now. The bond is the most important thing you have with a dog. Get them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=483.4s	483.4	 into you and you got to get into them and that's what we're in the process of doing right now and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=487.4s	487.4	 I love doing that through play. I think it's time for inertia to get another nap. Eight-week-old
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=491.5s	491.5	 puppies need between 18 and 20 hours of sleep per day. Okay now that she's awake, let's go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=498.1s	498.1	 town and introduce her to some strangers. Oh check it out, there's a dock diving event in town,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=502.8s	502.8	 maybe someday inertia. When you have a puppy it feels like you're a celebrity because everyone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=506.8s	506.8	 wants to come up and talk to your dog. Can I hold her? Yeah absolutely, please hold her. It's great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=511.5s	511.5	 for her to have other people hold her and interact with her especially when they're young like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=515.8s	515.8	 Underneath, go under right here, there you go. That's the good spot, it's exactly right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=523.0s	523.0	 She is a border collie. Well thank you for helping me train guys. This is obviously the first of many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=527.8s	527.8	 public outings for inertia. I'm just trying to condition her to new environments and new people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=531.9s	531.9	 and teach her that these things are normal. After all the way to get your dog listening to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=535.6s	535.6	 everywhere is to work with them and train with them everywhere possible and get them interacting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=539.9s	539.9	 with people in new situations as much as reasonably possible. She's getting a little anxious. There is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=545.7s	545.7	 such a thing as too much socialization. If you notice that your dog is getting overwhelmed or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=549.8s	549.8	 not taking to it very well, just take a step back. You may have noticed a moment ago when she was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=553.7s	553.7	 being pet she got a little anxious and started whining. I think it's best to exercise caution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=558.3s	558.3	 here. Time for a potty break. We found a secluded spot that probably a lot of dogs don't frequent,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=563.4s	563.4	 so we're gonna see if she's gonna go potty out here. So this time she didn't have to go but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=568.1s	568.1	 much better to give them too many opportunities to relieve themselves than too few. All right inertia,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=573.1s	573.1	 I think we need to go back to the hotel for another nap. She's looking peppy now. Let's play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=577.4s	577.4	 Basically what we're doing right now, Bri and I, is we're playing this back and forth game. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=581.3s	581.3	 tossing the toy back and forth, getting her used to doing some mild exercise indoors. Go ahead and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=586.9s	586.9	 entice her to pounce on it. Bite, yep. Good. Give her a little tug there. Keeping her motivated,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=593.8s	593.8	 Bri. You're very good at this. Go ahead and work on let go by making the toy boring. Just make it still.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=598.6s	598.6	 And then when she lets go, give her a yes and toss it. You could use the clicker with this too. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=605.8s	605.8	 using yes and the clicker, just whatever I feel like. So since she keeps losing it like that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=611.3s	611.3	 see she tracks it when you keep it low in front of her. Oh look, that's a border collie. Look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=615.6s	615.6	 that. La la la la la. Come here. Oh good girl, good girl. Where's your toy? Come here. Yes, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=626.2s	626.2	 That's a nice little fetch. You're gonna be fine. After all this playing, it's finally time to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=632.2s	632.2	 to bed for a nurse's first night with us. Since I'm in a hotel, I don't have an ideal containment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=638.0s	638.0	 system. And since I really want to take my time getting her used to her crate, we put together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=642.6s	642.6	 a makeshift pen slash crate combo area with our luggage and other stuff we brought from our trip.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=648.0s	648.0	 I'm avoiding putting the door on just yet because I want to be very delicate about closing the door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=653.1s	653.1	 I really want her to like her crate. I want her to view this as her bedroom and just a place where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=658.2s	658.2	 she feels really comfortable. Keep in mind, not all dogs like crates. I still don't know how she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=663.1s	663.1	 gonna take to the crate long term. So this is very much an experiment. Tomorrow night we'll have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=668.2s	668.2	 much more formal setup for her. It's been very convenient to just quickly pick her up and put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=673.3s	673.3	 her into her sleeping area. And she usually has just been falling right back asleep. We've done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=677.5s	677.5	 this a couple of times today. Although it's worth pointing out that I'm only picking her up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=681.3s	681.3	 putting her in her sleeping area when she falls asleep on her own. When she's conscious, I'll teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=685.6s	685.6	 her how to voluntarily and willingly go in and out of her crate. And so she doesn't get too bored,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=690.6s	690.6	 I'm going to give her this pup box chew toy. We've got her other stuffed animal. She, this is her toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=695.8s	695.8	 of the day. She's really loved this one. So right now it's 12, 11 a.m. We have a thunderstorm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=702.0s	702.0	 on outside. Now she's getting a little whining, which is understandable. I'm going to go ahead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=706.0s	706.0	 and give her some food right now. Just in the off chance she might be a little extra hungry.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=711.3s	711.3	 We are in a motel. We do have neighbors. It appears to be pretty sold out here. So I've got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=722.2s	722.2	 to keep her from barking too much. I guess a lot of you might deal with this if you have apartments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=726.0s	726.0	 or condominiums. So I'm going to encourage her to be quiet. I'm trying to find just really brief
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=735.8s	735.8	 moments of quiet to go ahead and reward her with right now. I'm clicking and offering her treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=741.0s	741.0	 during moments of quiet. Good. There was a tiny bit of quiet there. I'm going to go ahead and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=745.4s	745.4	 reward that, which also have the additional benefit of conditioning inertia during the storm.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=750.8s	750.8	 After all, if great treats come out during her first storm with us, then she's less likely to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=755.4s	755.4	 feel anxious in the future, especially if I keep this up. This is just normal anxiety right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=760.6s	760.6	 I'm just trying to temper it before it gets more out of control. This is something you just plan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=765.2s	765.2	 for when you have a new dog those first several nights. Quiet. See, just doing the small moments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=770.6s	770.6	 of relaxation and quiet. I'm clicking or rewarding her. It's really meticulous right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=776.6s	776.6	 Try not to let that whining get out of control.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=783.6s	783.6	 You see, I'm not waiting for her to start whining to be like, no, be quiet. You might also notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=787.8s	787.8	 she's not in her crate right now. She's lying on the pads. I'm totally okay with that. I don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=792.4s	792.4	 to add to her anxiety. The time when so many people get particularly frustrated with a puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=797.8s	797.8	 especially during the middle of the night. It's not when you want to train, you want to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=801.6s	801.6	 sleep, but just factor in that you're going to have to do this in most cases with a puppy as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=806.4s	806.4	 they're acclimating. Just be patient. Look for those small moments, but you can see how she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=810.7s	810.7	 lying down now. She's much more in that curled up, relaxed state. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=819.8s	819.8	 All right. Well, I just woke up. Inertia is out of her enclosure. Looks like Zach went with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=826.8s	826.8	 different strategy last night. I would say that the first night was much as expected. I mean, she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=832.1s	832.1	 whined about what? Three or four times throughout the night, something like that? Yes. Four times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=837.1s	837.1	 Four times. And I was able to have some success with reassuring her and everything, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=842.6s	842.6	 ultimately I ended up just caving, getting on the floor and sleeping with her because you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=847.4s	847.4	 you have to have a lot of empathy with a new puppy and understand that. I mean, their world is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=851.4s	851.4	 just changing so fast. Ah, she's peeing. Good job. You're like a leaky water balloon. You pee so much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=859.8s	859.8	 We're just about to head back to New Orleans right now, but I want to definitely give Inertia some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=863.9s	863.9	 exercise and get that edge off before we go. So we're going to do a lot of self-directed free play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=868.8s	868.8	 until a puppy is vaccinated. It's vital to avoid areas where other dogs likely frequent. And right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=874.4s	874.4	 now she's very stimulated. I'll bet she wouldn't even take a treat if I gave it to her right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=879.0s	879.0	 Let me see. See? Because she's so excited right now and taking in the world. So I'm just going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=885.8s	885.8	 let her do that and not focus on having a regimented structure training exercise. This is important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=891.0s	891.0	 for young dogs. Bree is going to wipe her paws off because she was walking. We're doing our best
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=895.4s	895.4	 to keep her away from areas that might've been frequented by dogs we don't know, but you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=899.1s	899.1	 never be too safe. So we're going to wipe her feet down. We're going to keep her in a safe place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=902.8s	902.8	 These also came with our pup box, you might recall. So they're quite handy, very practical.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=909.0s	909.0	 And because she was just exercised, she's a lot more likely to be tolerant of this. So to make the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=914.1s	914.1	 process go extra smooth, we're going to go ahead and give her some treats. When you're transporting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=918.7s	918.7	 a new puppy, of course, you've got to be prepared for some minor anxiety. And so we do the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=924.8s	924.8	 just to kind of put her at ease and let her know, hey, there's good stuff here. It's always a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=928.5s	928.5	 idea that if you're going to pick up a dog like this and you have a long road trip, have someone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=932.1s	932.1	 that can tend to the dog directly if possible. Inertia is passed out, but you know what? That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=937.4s	937.4	 doesn't mean I can't do some training. One thing that I want to do with her while she's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=940.7s	940.7	 through this major sleeping phase is really get her comfortable with touch, get them comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=945.8s	945.8	 with being touched in those more sensitive areas like their ears, their feet, maybe even their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=950.4s	950.4	 teeth, their gums. Let's get her tail and see what she does. So a road trip can be a great time to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=955.8s	955.8	 do this kind of training. We're about two hours into our road trip so far and everything's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=960.0s	960.0	 pretty smoothly. Okay, time for a potty break. We're going to charge up the car and get to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=965.0s	965.0	 spot where it's unlikely that other dogs visit since Inertia needs additional vaccinations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=970.4s	970.4	 Immediately her potty training is going so well. Good girl. This is interesting. She's scared of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=975.8s	975.8	 the fire hydrant right here and her anxiety might be too high for me to take this on right now. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=980.0s	980.0	 don't know that I want to insist that she go near, but we came up to it and she froze up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=984.4s	984.4	 Oh my gosh, a train. You just can't beat the real world and what public delivers. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=990.6s	990.6	 at first she was scared of the fire hydrant, but then a train came and made her completely nervous.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=994.9s	994.9	 I think she did all right, but right now I'm just reassuring her. There's no harm in reassuring your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=999.0s	999.0	 dog when they become a bit nervous like that. We've got some heavy rain and Inertia seems to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1003.8s	1003.8	 quite at home and quite comfortable. It's not phasing her a bit. What else can we do to give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1009.3s	1009.3	 Inertia some useful experiences while on a road trip? I'd like to see how she does with some music.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1014.5s	1014.5	 I don't know that she's ever heard music before. Oh, turn it down. You see her react? That was so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1021.1s	1021.1	 interesting. Good girl. She noticed it for sure. Desensitizing to like this artificial electronic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1027.2s	1027.2	 sound that she's never heard. The more deliberately you expose your dog to things, hopefully the better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1032.4s	1032.4	 and more accepting they'll be of those things. Go ahead and change the song. Oh, she likes this one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1036.9s	1036.9	 Look at her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1042.3s	1042.3	 Go ahead and turn it up a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1047.2s	1047.2	 I think that's a good exposure for now. We've been on the road like 10 hours now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1051.5s	1051.5	 It's time to stop and give Inertia some playtime. Puppies dig a lot too. I'm going to try to re-divert
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1056.8s	1056.8	 her attention and work on some real life leave-its here. So I haven't had a formal real life leave-it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1062.6s	1062.6	 training session with her. She doesn't yet know her name, so I'm going to whistle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1067.0s	1067.0	 do whatever I can to get her to pay attention to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1073.3s	1073.3	 Okay, here's the thing. Dogs don't automatically just know what a toy is. So let's see if I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1078.8s	1078.8	 spark some interest with this toy and in this new environment. She wasn't really responding before.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1084.2s	1084.2	 See how I just made it real, real exciting and she goes, what? That's what I mean sometimes when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1088.7s	1088.7	 say make the toy more interesting. Give her a little tug right there. Keep it interesting. Let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1093.0s	1093.0	 her win. Ultimately, I'm trying to find out if she's the kind of dog that will play on cue when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1098.1s	1098.1	 you break out any toy or maybe she's the kind of dog who's like, I like to play sometimes. Sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1102.1s	1102.1	 I don't. She's too young for me to tell that, but I can get some early indicators. Inertia slept for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1106.7s	1106.7	 the last leg of the drive and now it's time to finally show her her new home. Inertia, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1113.4s	1113.4	 we're home. Her first time walking through the door. Well, it's been 36 hours and the fun
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1119.0s	1119.0	 continues. Stay tuned for the next episode. Let me know what you'd like to see Inertia learn.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1123.4s	1123.4	 Subscribe to my channel if you want to see Inertia's progress. If you like videos like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1127.3s	1127.3	 you'll really like our Instagram, at Zach George. I'm going to have that link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1131.4s	1131.4	 below. I do live training with her over there and show you what she's learning. Sign up to get 50%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1136.6s	1136.6	 off of your first pup box when you sign up for a three, six or 12 month subscription. That link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1140.8s	1140.8	 will be below too. In the next episode, we're going to find out what Inertia's first day at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Cndhfrx6CU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=335&pp=iAQB&t=1145.0s	1145.0	 home is like, and it's going to be action packed.
