https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 In today's episode, we're going to learn how to-
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=1.8s	1.8	 Excuse me, excuse me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=3.4s	3.4	 Hi, I'm Inconvenient Man, and I want to do everything in my power to make your life less convenient.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=9.6s	9.6	 Why? Because progress is for losers.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=13.0s	13.0	 Ah, I think I'll read something.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=15.0s	15.0	 English? That's my native language.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=17.5s	17.5	 This won't do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=19.4s	19.4	 This looks like German. Perfect.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=21.2s	21.2	 I have no idea how to speak German.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=30.4s	30.4	 I love making things harder than they have to be.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=33.2s	33.2	 Inconvenient Man, you know, things would probably be a lot better for you if you would just open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=37.2s	37.2	 your mind and start by having your pet's food automatically shipped to you from PepFlo, for example.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=42.0s	42.0	 And miss the pleasure of driving across town, choosing from a limited selection,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=46.2s	46.2	 and hauling it home myself?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 For the rest of us, there's a better option.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 You can save $10 on your first three automatic shipments from PepFlo.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 Saving time and money?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=56.4s	56.4	 Absolutely not.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=58.0s	58.0	 Use discount code ZACH30. The link will be in the description.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=61.1s	61.1	 Click thumbs up for a new video. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 It's completely free and you'll learn how to train your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=66.8s	66.8	 And if you want even more tips, follow me on Instagram, at ZachGeorge, link below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 Recently, Delta the German Shepherd Dog mix came by.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=73.8s	73.8	 My understanding is that she occasionally becomes uncomfortable with people and she's been known to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=78.0s	78.0	 snap at people. I've asked Danielle to get Delta comfortable with a basket muzzle prior to our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=82.6s	82.6	 meeting. These kinds of muzzles are the best for managing a dog who might snap or bite a person or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=87.6s	87.6	 animal as they allow the dog to pant, take treats, and drink water while keeping everybody safe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=92.7s	92.7	 It's uncommon for dogs to snap at people without warning and seemingly unprovoked.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=97.3s	97.3	 You can see here I'm cautiously petting Delta as I'm aware of her issue.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=105.8s	105.8	 As I'm looking at this again, perhaps she took exception with being pet on top of her head by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=110.0s	110.0	 someone she doesn't know very well? Whenever a dog acts out like this towards other people or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=114.0s	114.0	 other animals that she'd be dealt with on a case by case basis. Let's find out more about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=118.6s	118.6	 Delta from her mom, Danielle. My name is Danielle and this is my dog Delta. So,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=123.5s	123.5	 Delta was found on the street. She was about five or six weeks old. She had really fed worms when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=128.4s	128.4	 we found her, so we nursed her back to health. We've been inseparable ever since. Currently,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=132.6s	132.6	 Delta is three years old. Delta can be selective about new people that she meets and she can be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=137.4s	137.4	 a little reactive. You might notice that Delta is wearing her basket muzzle. I like to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=141.4s	141.4	 Delta has good associations with wearing her muzzle because that means that she's safe and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=145.4s	145.4	 we're keeping other people safe. Zach, please help me get Delta more comfortable around strangers.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=149.7s	149.7	 Tell me, how does she react at home though normally? What's her behavior like when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=153.0s	153.0	 have someone come over? She's generally excited. She likes to bring people things when they come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=157.2s	157.2	 through the door like a blanket or a toy. She's never had any sort of outburst like that in our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 home. Okay, so my best guess there, change of environment. That can be stressful to some dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=166.1s	166.1	 They can be like, why are we here? What is this place? Who is this guy touching my head right now?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=169.8s	169.8	 It's important that whenever we're trying to resolve issues like this, that we really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=173.8s	173.8	 understand the context because when dogs react unfavorably or react in any way to anything,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=179.3s	179.3	 it's due to their genetics, lifetime experience, and the context in which the incidents occur.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=184.5s	184.5	 Does she like to be pet? She's not a dog that comes up looking for pets from me even.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=189.1s	189.1	 She may get irritable when she gets pet because until I was petting her, she was fine. While we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=193.8s	193.8	 can never claim to know what's going on inside a dog's mind, most likely it's probably some type
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=199.0s	199.0	 of fear response. She's unsure. I'm asking all of these questions just because every case is so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=204.6s	204.6	 unique and so different. My plan today is to kind of address this in three different ways. We're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=208.9s	208.9	 going to talk about desensitizing her so that we can minimize the chance of this happening in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 future, as well as how to counter condition her in order to change her reaction. Management is also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=219.4s	219.4	 a huge variable. And it looks like you've got that under control, but we'll talk more about that later.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=223.4s	223.4	 It's my goal throughout this training session not to have another outburst like that. My goal is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=227.9s	227.9	 keep her under that level of stress to where she's unlikely to react that way again. I see how she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=233.8s	233.8	 leaning on you, very trusting of you. She's just checking everything out. And that bond that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=238.8s	238.8	 guys have seems really strong. That's going to be really important when you go to address something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=243.1s	243.1	 like this with her. I love how you're giving her the reassurance as well. That's another big
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=247.1s	247.1	 important part of this. To give her that reassurance is going to go a long way. One of the best things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=251.0s	251.0	 that we can do to get a dog to react more favorably is to desensitize them. We just want to give her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=255.8s	255.8	 that general experience of being around people. We've had her here how long now? About 10 minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=260.3s	260.3	 or so. Might be a good idea to give her a few more minutes just to interact over here and smell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=264.2s	264.2	 around. The more she experiences being around situations that typically make her uncomfortable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=268.6s	268.6	 the more likely she is to feel normal in those situations. However, if she doesn't have frequent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=273.2s	273.2	 exposure to those situations, then it's going to prove challenging. As we've been sitting here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=277.9s	277.9	 talking, she seems to be adjusting. She feels very comfortable with you. So I think we should move on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=282.1s	282.1	 to the next step, which is counter conditioning, providing good outcomes around things that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=286.6s	286.6	 typically cause her to feel a bit uneasy. So I'm going to give her some treats. Awesome. If we hope
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=291.0s	291.0	 to alter her reaction around new people, we have to give her a reason to change that reaction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=296.1s	296.1	 Play and food are great places to start. I'm going to start off by dropping it because she did snap
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=301.1s	301.1	 at me in a moment ago. I like to think that good dog trainers don't get bit. So I'm going to ease
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=306.0s	306.0	 her into it. My goal here is to completely reverse the perception that she had of me out there. She
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=311.0s	311.0	 felt uneasy. That's why she snapped at me. So now if I show her, Hey, look, I give you turkey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=315.4s	315.4	 that's likely to make her feel a bit better. Look who's on their good behavior now, right? I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=319.1s	319.1	 to treat her open palm here. So now I'm able to put my hand right at her face there. That's a step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=324.1s	324.1	 in the right direction. I'm now a little more comfortable to get a little bit lower on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=327.5s	327.5	 ground with her here. And I'm pretty close to her right now. Cause my best guess with her is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=331.3s	331.3	 when you get in her personal space, she gets a little alarmed. And you might notice I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=335.0s	335.0	 petting her a lot because there's a good chance that that's a trigger to her. I'm giving her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 really tiny pieces here. And this is all really good so far. I'm looking at her body language.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=342.6s	342.6	 I mean, her frog legs over here seem to indicate that she's in a relaxed state of mind. I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=347.0s	347.0	 seeing the pile of erection. That's where their hair stands up. I'm not seeing her look particularly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=351.4s	351.4	 alert. It's really important to try and understand a dog's body language. Get any clues that you can.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=356.2s	356.2	 Basically you do counter conditioning exercises like this. Ideally you get strangers to give her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=361.5s	361.5	 treats or drop treats in front of her. And the idea is that over time, if she has enough experiences
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=366.4s	366.4	 with strangers dropping treats from the sky around her, that she's more likely to start to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=370.7s	370.7	 associate good things with them. Yes. Good girl. So now I'm letting her just kind of lick me with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=376.2s	376.2	 no treats. Just getting her used to seeing a hand come towards her face. Yeah. I'm just getting her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=380.6s	380.6	 to interact with my hand in her space. Good job. Very good. And she's like, where's the tree? But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=385.0s	385.0	 you know, the main thing is she's not showing a lot of stress signs here. Let me see if I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=388.5s	388.5	 get her to take some general direction from me. I mean, if she'll do some basic tricks for me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=392.2s	392.2	 that's a sure fire sign that she's getting comfortable with me. She knows it pretty. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=396.6s	396.6	 Oh, look at that. What do you call it? Beg. Beg. Oh, look at you. That's so great. Bang.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=404.0s	404.0	 Good girl. Oh, that's really cool. When a dog takes direction from someone they've never met or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=409.4s	409.4	 unfamiliar with, like me, that's a really good sign that they're not in a stressful state of mind.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=413.4s	413.4	 We're making great strides on counter conditioning Delta to react better towards me. But remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=417.7s	417.7	 that managing any dog with an issue like this is paramount to their long-term success. When you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=423.1s	423.1	 a dog like this that has had issues with reacting to people in the past, it's important to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=428.5s	428.5	 manage them honestly lifelong. You can make a lot of improvement and perhaps she can get over it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=433.3s	433.3	 completely, but every dog is different. You're doing great on management. You've got her on leash,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=437.4s	437.4	 she's on a harness. You have the basket muzzle on just to keep everybody safe. When you talked about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=441.7s	441.7	 how when you go on walks, if you see that she's likely to react, you create the distance and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=445.9s	445.9	 everything. These are fantastic ways to manage. For those of you at home who are dealing with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=449.8s	449.8	 this, whether your dog reacts unfavorably with dogs or people or any other animal,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=453.5s	453.5	 it's important to have realistic expectations. This isn't something that you necessarily resolve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=458.0s	458.0	 quickly. Sometimes it can be years, sometimes it can be lifelong. It really just depends on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=462.4s	462.4	 the individual dog. The most efficient way to get through issues like this is to give your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=466.8s	466.8	 positive experiences, and that's what we're trying to do. If you've ever seen another dog trainer,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=471.0s	471.0	 whether it's on YouTube TV, who really tries to challenge a dog or really intimidate them or force
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=476.2s	476.2	 them to try and get them to not behave this way, that's unlikely to resolve this issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=480.4s	480.4	 long term. That instead is something we call learned helplessness. If the behavior does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=484.7s	484.7	 reemerge, it's likely to reemerge worse than ever. Today was a success because we gave her a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=490.7s	490.7	 good association with everything. She's doing well. She's smelling my hand. She's doing tricks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=495.3s	495.3	 for me. Danielle, great job today. Click thumbs up if you enjoyed today's video. Subscribe to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=500.6s	500.6	 channel as well. And to get more dog training tips between videos, follow me on Instagram,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=505.0s	505.0	 at Zach George. I've just announced my newest book too. So if you'd like to order it, I'll have that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=509.1s	509.1	 link and everything else I just mentioned in the description below. I hope you guys like this video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=513.3s	513.3	 And this is a reminder to let you know we're really active on Instagram and that you can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=517.1s	517.1	 dog training tips virtually daily, as well as be a part of my live broadcast. For those not familiar,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=522.1s	522.1	 Instagram is a mobile only app. So go download the app. I'll have my Instagram link below for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eULj1GOH0-A&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=347&pp=iAQB&t=526.8s	526.8	 you to check out. Follow me there.
