https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by Pet Flow. You want a huge selection of high quality foods for your dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 but why should you have to leave your house to get it? None of us enjoy hauling heavy bags of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=8.5s	8.5	 dog food across town either, do we? Pet Flow almost certainly has your dog's favorite brand of food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=13.3s	13.3	 It's extremely easy to try and to make it even easier, Pet Flow is going to give you $10 off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=17.9s	17.9	 your first three automatic shipments. You just choose your dog's favorite brand of food and tell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=21.7s	21.7	 them how often you want it to be delivered and it will just be there. Enter code ZACH30 at checkout.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=27.4s	27.4	 And did I mention that they only support modern training methods, so much so that they don't even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=32.1s	32.1	 sell outdated relics like choke prong and electric collars? I'll have that link and coupon code in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=37.0s	37.0	 description below. Click thumbs up for Rosie, the golden retriever puppy. Make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=41.3s	41.3	 to my channel and pick up a copy of my best-selling book, Dog Training Revolution. I'll have a link in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=46.0s	46.0	 the description below. And if you're not following us on Instagram, be sure to do that too. That link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=50.2s	50.2	 will also be below. I met Rosie when she was only nine weeks old. Now she's already five months old.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=55.6s	55.6	 So today we're going to do a checkup on her and see how her training is going. I remember my last
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=59.5s	59.5	 meeting with Rosie. Her fetch, well it wasn't exactly developed yet. Of course, who could blame
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 her? She was only nine weeks old. But let's see how that's going. Hey, go get that. Okay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=70.7s	70.7	 fetch still has a little ways to go. Let's see if we can make some progress on that. Get it. Rosie,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=76.3s	76.3	 come on. Come on, let's go. Yes, good job. Good. You might recall when teaching your dog to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=85.2s	85.2	 fetch, getting them to chase you is a good place to start. Come on, let's go right there. Good job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=90.2s	90.2	 And I don't just want to take the toy from her and be like, okay, that's what I expected. I want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=94.5s	94.5	 really ignite that game of tug of war because look, she enjoys that. When your dog enjoys something,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=99.2s	99.2	 use that to your advantage. So this play time and tug of war is actually her reward for bringing it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=103.5s	103.5	 back. It incentivizes her to bring it back. You're showing your dog, hey, all the actions over here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=108.2s	108.2	 It's a lot of fun. We're keeping the distance really short here. Very important. Good girl. Yes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=112.9s	112.9	 even if they accidentally bring it back to begin with, that's okay too. The more repetition you do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 with fetch training, the more likely it is your dog is going to figure out how this game works.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=123.3s	123.3	 But by keeping it nice and short and having that high rep number, you're going to get there a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=127.4s	127.4	 quicker than throwing the toy really far in the beginning stages. So Rosie's fundamentals on fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=132.2s	132.2	 are looking fantastic right now. In my first training session with Rosie, come when called was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=137.6s	137.6	 not really looking that solid yet. I haven't worked with her and only her mom has worked with her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=142.1s	142.1	 Will she generalize those skills? That's what I'm curious to check out here. Like will she take that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=146.4s	146.4	 direction from me, a person that she doesn't regularly work with? You're jumping there, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 she's using some restraint. Stay. Okay, come on. Okay, off the distraction over here. Right there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=159.4s	159.4	 See how she's distracted? That was really good there. You could just read her eyes really well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=163.8s	163.8	 there. She's like, I want this, but I'm going to focus on you instead. I love it when dogs do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=169.2s	169.2	 I'm going to give her a really extra big reward there. I'm actually going to leave that toy on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=172.8s	172.8	 the ground because I like that it's a bit of a minor distraction for right now. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=176.4s	176.4	 real training involves training around distractions. So if that's a minor one,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=179.8s	179.8	 let's use it to our advantage. Give her some experience of not going after things she wants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=183.9s	183.9	 to go after. Stay. Okay, come good. Really good restraint there. She looked at this toy over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=189.5s	189.5	 and she's like, I want to get it, but I'm supposed to be staying. And that was really good. Okay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=193.7s	193.7	 come on. Sit. Good. How about down? What? Look at you. Good job. Nice work. Well, that was really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 impressive there. I was able to have her stay, come sit and lie down before I rewarded her with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=207.9s	207.9	 one treat there. So that's a really good sign that she's starting to get in the habit of going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=212.2s	212.2	 through a sequence of behaviors and really keep that focus and stay motivated. So that's awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 Her basic skills are looking pretty decent inside, but we have to measure how well she's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=221.4s	221.4	 outside. Outside is at least 10 times more difficult. So I've got a really long lead.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=226.2s	226.2	 That's important. You want to have that safety net at all times, even in a fenced area like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=231.4s	231.4	 because you don't want your dog in a position to run and play chase and do all of that. So you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=235.1s	235.1	 to easily be able to get to them. Rosie is definitely smelling the ground. She's very intrigued by her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=241.8s	241.8	 environment. Can't even get her attention on me right now. You see that? Let's see if Turkey helps.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=245.8s	245.8	 A little bit. Good. Over here. She's only a little bit into the turkey. You see that? That's how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=254.2s	254.2	 challenging outside is. It's hard to compete with outdoor distractions, particularly in the beginning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=259.6s	259.6	 stages of training. Sit. Trying to measure her compliance. Yes. Good girl. I'm going to go ahead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 and give her a jackpot reward there for listening to me. Even though it's just a basic sit, I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=270.9s	270.9	 going to see if I can get her to come to me from just a little bit, you know, a few feet away,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=274.5s	274.5	 not very far at all. Rosie, come here. Just not listening to me at all. Rosie's all tied up right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=280.2s	280.2	 now, but since she's not really listening to me, I'm going to shorten the distance and see if that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=283.5s	283.5	 helps. Dogs are more likely to listen to you the closer you are to them. Rosie, hey. Okay. Distracted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=290.5s	290.5	 by a ground scent. I'm going to try to use my currency to see if that helps. She could not care
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=295.9s	295.9	 less about that. I'm going to give her a second here and be a little patient with her. Let me see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=301.0s	301.0	 if I get her to chase me a little bit. That's another thing that can help. Rosie, come on. Let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=304.9s	304.9	 go. Come on. Come on. There we go. Good job. Nice work. Picking up that energy is a really good thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=311.3s	311.3	 to do when you're working with a dog who's distracted. You know, there we had to pull out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=314.9s	314.9	 a lot of different strategies to get her to come and that's kind of what you have to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=319.3s	319.3	 And the more you practice this, the more reliable something like Come When Called Will Be, but it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=323.1s	323.1	 can take work with a lot of dogs, especially when you're competing with an outdoor environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=326.6s	326.6	 Come on. Good job. See, I didn't sit there and hold a 10, 15 second stay right there. I just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=332.4s	332.4	 really wanted to catch her succeeding and really give her that instance of success. Good job, Rosie.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=337.3s	337.3	 So, Rosie still has quite a ways to go and learning how to come when called in a highly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=341.4s	341.4	 distracting environment like outside, but she's well on the right track. She just needs a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=346.0s	346.0	 bit more practice and she'll be fine. Leash walking is of course one of the more challenging aspects
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=350.4s	350.4	 of teaching any larger breed dog. So, I'd like to see how she's doing in that area. That's leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=355.4s	355.4	 biting. That's not leash walking. Now we're in the wild. We're no longer in my yard. Okay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=360.6s	360.6	 so right now she's look at her. She's throwing a bit of a fit right now saying, I want to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=364.2s	364.2	 with this leash. I'd rather that she just pay attention to me. So again, we're going to test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 for compliance by having her sit. Sit. Perfect. That means she's willing to listen. Remember,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=373.8s	373.8	 we ask our dogs to sit in a situation like this in order to measure how compliant they are. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=378.8s	378.8	 they'll do a sit, they'll probably listen to some other stuff, but if they're so distracted and they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=382.7s	382.7	 won't even sit, then you probably should take a step back on your training and go a bit slower.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=386.8s	386.8	 In other words, they're not ready for a leash walking session in this setting. Come on, let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=391.5s	391.5	 Good girl. Ooh, this is good. Look at this. I'm going to turn around quickly. Rosie. Oops,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=397.0s	397.0	 got to the end that time. Rosie, come on this way. And she's saying, no, I want to go that way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=403.8s	403.8	 Okay, so we're going to take a moment here. I'm going to use my currency teacher to think from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=407.7s	407.7	 inside out, motivate her to want to listen. Remember, it's tempting to sometimes pull your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=412.4s	412.4	 dog. That doesn't teach them though. You're not going to get very far with that strategy. Rosie,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=416.7s	416.7	 come on. There we go. Yes. Good job. And you see just picking up your energy like that is a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=423.4s	423.4	 way to compete with the environment if you have it in you. Come on, girl. Yes. Over here. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=430.7s	430.7	 Good. And sit. Yes. That's great. I'm just going to walk back and forth for a minute.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=438.3s	438.3	 I don't mind that she's sniffing the ground. The important thing is that I can get her attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=443.3s	443.3	 on me when I ask for it. Rosie. Yes. Good girl. Love it. Come on. Good work. Look at this. Many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=453.0s	453.0	 steps in a row here. I'm going to go ahead and reward her. Good. Let me see if we can keep going.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=457.9s	457.9	 Come on, Rosie. Yes. And abrupt turn. Rosie, come. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=469.4s	469.4	 She's a little playful there. Come on. Sit. Leash walking looks exceptional for a dog this young,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=475.2s	475.2	 this curious, and this inexperienced in this particular environment. She's doing great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=480.2s	480.2	 I understand it can be really challenging to be more exciting than the environment. That's why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=485.3s	485.3	 you'll want to start out in an environment like this that's mildly distracting before you go to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=489.2s	489.2	 fair or a festival with your dog and expect them to listen to you in that setting. Click thumbs up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=493.5s	493.5	 for Rosie. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel. Get $10 off your first three automatic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=497.3s	497.3	 shipments when you order your food through PEPFLO. I'll have that link and coupon code in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=501.0s	501.0	 description below. Make sure you're following us on Instagram and Facebook. Get a copy of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=504.6s	504.6	 bestselling book too. Again, all those links will be below. We'll see you guys in the next video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3eNhGa5ilc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=373&pp=iAQB&t=509.4s	509.4	 Rosie, you did great today. Nice job, honey.
