https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is sponsored by Pupford. I have a big announcement. I am thrilled to be offering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=4.5s	4.5	 a completely free and commercial free 30 day digital dog training class 30 day perfect pup.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=10.6s	10.6	 This class will walk you through everything you need to know to train the perfect dog no matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=14.7s	14.7	 their age breed or breed mix. I've always wanted to create an in depth dog training series filmed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=20.5s	20.5	 as a standalone set of videos to really give people the help they need with their dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=25.0s	25.0	 This is one of my most ambitious projects yet. I'm so excited to be combining my expertise and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 experience into one effective straightforward and positive reinforcement based series for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 first time ever. Over the last few months, my team and I have been filming and producing a truly one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=39.7s	39.7	 of a kind premium quality training course designed to help you train your dog fast. This course won't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=45.6s	45.6	 cost you a thing. In fact, you can sign up right now by going to the link in the description. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=49.6s	49.6	 you've ever wanted to take an in person dog training class with me, this course is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=53.6s	53.6	 to give you all of the information and more that I give in my dog training classes. This is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 first time I've been able to be so purposeful about methodically going through the steps you'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=62.9s	62.9	 need to take with your dog. I was careful to cast a variety of different dogs with different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=67.5s	67.5	 personalities and energy levels to give you a clear sense of how to approach your training no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=72.4s	72.4	 matter what kind of dog you have or how old they are. Whether your dog needs to learn basic skills
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=77.3s	77.3	 like sit, stay, leave it, leash walking, come when called and most importantly, how to listen around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=83.2s	83.2	 distractions or you're struggling with play biting, chewing, jumping, potty training, or you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=88.7s	88.7	 struggle to keep their attention. The 30 day perfect pup series will help you and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 overcome these challenges and progress towards the perfect pup you've been dreaming of. If you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=97.3s	97.3	 happen to be new to my training, my name is Zach and my team and I make the most watch video dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=101.5s	101.5	 training content in the world. I've been training dogs for over 15 years and my best selling book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=106.0s	106.0	 Dog Training Revolution has been a must have resource for new pet parents everywhere. My goal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=110.8s	110.8	 is to promote quality modern training methods that truly deliver a superior teaching experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=116.5s	116.5	 for both you and your dog. A lack of training is the reason that so many people end up relinquishing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=121.4s	121.4	 or giving up on their dogs. The Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science published a study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=126.1s	126.1	 that indicated 96% of dogs relinquished to shelters have never had any prior obedience training. One
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=131.9s	131.9	 major goal of this absolutely free training is to help reduce the number of dogs given up and sent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=136.8s	136.8	 to shelters. With this free 30 day class, you won't have to worry about how to address the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=141.1s	141.1	 common hurdles people encounter with their dogs and you'll learn how to actually teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=145.3s	145.3	 to do what you ask of them. The 30 day perfect pup digital dog training class comes with free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=150.3s	150.3	 step-by-step training videos, a training manual, a free principal guide, free access to a private
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=155.4s	155.4	 community of both experts and dog lovers just like you, and so much more. In just 30 days,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=160.6s	160.6	 you're going to get all the knowledge you need to teach your dog to listen to you for a lifetime
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=165.0s	165.0	 and love you too, but I guess you don't need my training videos for that. One of the reasons that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=168.7s	168.7	 people quit when training their dogs is because they just don't know how to overcome specific
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=172.5s	172.5	 training issues like getting your dog to listen to you outside or in the face of distractions or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=177.3s	177.3	 even to get them to listen to you without treats. I've placed a strong emphasis on how to overcome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=181.9s	181.9	 these roadblocks in this course. By training your dog for just 20 to 30 minutes a day and applying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 what you learned in the course, you're going to see amazing advances in your dog's behavior.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=190.6s	190.6	 You find this new tug toy. Okay, we'll play with this. The time spent training your dog is one of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=195.5s	195.5	 the most valuable investments that you can give to your pet and it will help you communicate with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=199.7s	199.7	 your dog in ways that you probably never imagined. So sign up for free, join the private community,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=204.9s	204.9	 and let's start training your dog today. The link to sign up and all of the details will be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=209.2s	209.2	 in the description of this video. Click thumbs up for Tilly and go click that link and let's start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEKtHjACCts&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=383&pp=iAQB&t=213.9s	213.9	 training.
