https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's episode is sponsored by Pet Flow. Dogs require lots of time and attention, and I know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=4.5s	4.5	 that a lot of you have busy lifestyles. And one way to get some of that time back is to have your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=8.5s	8.5	 pet's food automatically shipped to your front door with Pet Flow. Pet Flow has made it super
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=13.2s	13.2	 easy for you to give it a shot. Just enter code ZACH30 when you check out and you'll get $10 off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=17.9s	17.9	 your first three automatic shipments. All you have to do is choose your dog's food and tell Pet Flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=22.6s	22.6	 how often you want it delivered. I'll have a link and coupon code in the description below. If you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=27.0s	27.0	 not already, follow us on Instagram. We have lots of cool extra content over there and pick up a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=32.2s	32.2	 copy of my book if you're new to training dogs. Bitsy Bella, the tiny three-month-old dog, is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=37.0s	37.0	 coming over and we're just going to get to know her together and see how she is. You weigh as much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=41.0s	41.0	 as air. What's that, Bitsy Bella? Hey, oh, look at this. So Bitsy, three months old, right into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=48.4s	48.4	 toy. Oftentimes when a dog has this much energy, it means they're capable of doing so much. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=54.2s	54.2	 look at all that curiosity. Look at that focus. You just have to kind of harness it and turn it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=59.2s	59.2	 into something beautiful. Let's see how her fetch looks. And I'm just, you notice right there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=63.3s	63.3	 I just threw it just a few inches because I don't want to throw it across the room and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=67.7s	67.7	 have her get distracted. That's pretty good focus right there. Come on, come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=72.6s	72.6	 Wait, you forgot your ball. Your ball. It's over here. Good. Come on. Yes. Oh, look at that little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=79.8s	79.8	 fetch. Three months old. That's wonderful. Come on. But see, it's much more important with fetch at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=86.6s	86.6	 this age to get these tiny short reps in right here, not throw it across the room or the yard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=92.1s	92.1	 because you really want them to get the mechanics of fetch down. Chasing the ball, picking it up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=96.3s	96.3	 bringing it back in the straight line, promptly letting go and eagerly awaiting the next throw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=101.1s	101.1	 That is the workflow we're trying to accomplish with fetch. Yes. Good. Right there. I love that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 she just turned around and that was good enough for me. With her temperament, my guess is she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=113.2s	113.2	 probably the type of dog who's going to really get into fetch where this little stuff kind of stuff
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=118.8s	118.8	 isn't going to distract her. If you're consistent about her for about 12 weeks or so, this is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=123.2s	123.2	 period you have to go through where they're like, I'm energetic. I don't want to listen. I want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=126.8s	126.8	 do this. I want to do that. That's just part of having a puppy. Just teach her a good game of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=130.5s	130.5	 fetch. And with dogs this small, I mean, you can get them fetching inside the house pretty easy and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=136.5s	136.5	 they can actually get a workout inside the house. It's a year of training before you should even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=140.7s	140.7	 think about trying to phase out treats. And it doesn't just happen naturally. You have to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=144.5s	144.5	 purposely phase out treats and be like, look, you listen to me here in this context, in that context,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 you know, when, when people are coming over for dinner, when we're out on a walk and when there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=154.2s	154.2	 a squirrel there, she doesn't even know your language yet. Treats are what keep it going,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=157.6s	157.6	 keep the communication going. Believe it or not, at three months old, Bitsy is not yet potty trained.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=162.6s	162.6	 The biggest mistake people make with dogs is not keeping them on leash with, with new dogs or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=167.2s	167.2	 puppies in particular, like almost all the time. You know, the thing with potty training though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=171.4s	171.4	 is that you really have to just show her the right place to go often for many, many months.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=176.7s	176.7	 She's a fun dog. With dogs this young too, it's important to give them exposure to lots of different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=181.7s	181.7	 dogs of all sizes. But remember when you're socializing your dog, you want to go out of your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=185.8s	185.8	 way to screen dogs to make sure they're likely to behave very tolerantly of, of your dog. So,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=191.5s	191.5	 you know, in Bitsy's case, you wouldn't just want to let her go up to any dog in the world because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=196.8s	196.8	 she's so little and fragile. Let's see how she does on her basics. Let's see if she knows how to sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=201.2s	201.2	 yet and see right here, I'm trying to get her to sit, but you see how she's like all over the place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 That's really normal for dogs. So you have to be real. This is what I mean when I say you got to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=209.8s	209.8	 be patient with dogs. You can see, I mean, look how fast she's going. So as soon as you get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 into a sit, you want to go reward her. Look how she's just hopping up and everything. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=217.3s	217.3	 really common with dogs of all sizes. They don't really know to wait to get rewarded. So that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=222.7s	222.7	 something we kind of have to teach them. So whoops, another reason Alicia's important. Good. So right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 there, I noticed that she'll sit when you just hold up the treat. Yes. Yes. Good. Yes. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=239.0s	239.0	 I'm trying to get her to hold that sit a little bit longer, but you see how I'm quickly coming back.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=244.8s	244.8	 If your dog has a temperament like this and they're real excited and they're jumping around all over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=248.8s	248.8	 the place, don't be frustrated by that. That's a really good sign that you've got a highly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=253.6s	253.6	 highly teachable dog. All of this is just curiosity. This is a dog just trying to interact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 with their world and just, just trying to see what it's all about. And when you have a dog that has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=263.7s	263.7	 that kind of curiosity, they're really easy to teach. If you put the time in, if you don't put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=268.1s	268.1	 the time in with them, then they can be a lot to manage. It's important to give them a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=272.6s	272.6	 different things to do. Oh, look at that. Look at those eyes. I'm just letting her nibble on it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=278.8s	278.8	 right now. Good. Let me see if we can do it down. And see, this is what I mean with little dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=286.4s	286.4	 I've made this point in the past, but when you kind of push back with your lure, you're likely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=290.9s	290.9	 to let them, encourage them to go into a down. See, traditionally when you lure a dog into a down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=295.6s	295.6	 although it might work with her, we kind of come at this angle, you know, straight down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=300.6s	300.6	 but with, you can see by pushing back a little, it seems like little dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=304.6s	304.6	 are more likely to go into that down. Give me a sit. Look at me. Good. Got to sit and look at me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=310.2s	310.2	 I'll take that. That's good. Come on over here. What I've learned about Bitsy is that she's willing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=313.8s	313.8	 to work for both food and play. So she has two really effective currencies and now we have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 tools to move forward and teach her things. So it's, training just comes down to providing positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=325.3s	325.3	 outcomes to desired behavior. So when she's behaving well, if there's a really good treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=329.8s	329.8	 there at the end to let her know, Hey, that yielded something good for you, or a few seconds of tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=335.1s	335.1	 of war, or even a toss of the toy, then she's more likely to repeat those behaviors. And we just have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=339.8s	339.8	 to be there as people and really let them know, Hey, I like that. I'm going to make sure I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=344.1s	344.1	 acknowledge that I like that by paying you and letting you know that I appreciate it. And then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=348.7s	348.7	 over time, as these things become second nature to your dog, you don't have to pay him so much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=353.2s	353.2	 She's really wiggly. She's just wiggly in general. And so wouldn't it be nice to be able to hold her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=357.8s	357.8	 and just have her relax? Well, a lot of this comes down to of course exercise, making sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 they're getting an outlet for all this energy. But also, you know, you want to encourage them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=366.7s	366.7	 to be calm by maybe letting them nibble on a good treat here and desensitizing them as I cover often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=372.8s	372.8	 with puppies by massaging their little feet and massaging their ears and just getting them used
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=377.2s	377.2	 to kind of being touched and held, but really letting her just nibble on something like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=381.8s	381.8	 I mean, she's barely getting any she's pretty much only able to lick it right there. I'm not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=386.0s	386.0	 really restraining her at all. She's sitting here voluntarily. We're just petting her softly,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=392.8s	392.8	 encouraging calmness, you'll get the most bang for your buck out of this type of training post
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=397.0s	397.0	 exercise. So right after she's worn out a little bit, I would really place a strong emphasis on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=402.5s	402.5	 working with her on the basics that you're familiar with my playlist on YouTube. Okay, cool, get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=407.4s	407.4	 everything looking really good inside, then throw it all out the window and start training outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=412.3s	412.3	 and know I got to reteach all this stuff outside now. It's really important to be real sensitive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=416.5s	416.5	 to the context in which you're asking a dog to do something and and that's something that's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=420.2s	420.2	 really intuitive to us as people. Tell yourself, look, it's a year of this. It's six months of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=424.3s	424.3	 really hardcore focusing and managing her and taking 20 minutes to an hour a day spread throughout
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=429.5s	429.5	 the day to really focus on primary training and keep her on leash otherwise or in environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=434.3s	434.3	 where she can't get away with bad behavior like not coming to you. So you don't make progress all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=438.5s	438.5	 at one time, just keep chipping away and and working on some of the basic things like sit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=442.9s	442.9	 stay, leash walking, teaching them the right things to bite on and chew on and stuff like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=448.5s	448.5	 Click thumbs up for Bitsy Bella, make sure you're subscribed to my channel. Are you following us on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=453.0s	453.0	 Facebook and Instagram yet? We produce lots of extra content over there. Also pick up a copy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QXL6_8WBZg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=385&pp=iAQB&t=457.8s	457.8	 of my book Dog Training Revolution. It'll show you everything you need to know to train your dog.
