https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Click thumbs up for a new video. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=3.3s	3.3	 And are you following us on Instagram and Facebook? I'll have a link below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=6.6s	6.6	 When I meet any new puppy, there's a checklist of things I like to go through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=9.9s	9.9	 just to kind of see how they're doing on their general training. So that's what we're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=12.7s	12.7	 do with her today. If you've got a new puppy, you need to know about Pet Flow. Pet Flow is a service
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=17.1s	17.1	 that will deliver your dog's food in any time interval you prefer, right to your front door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=22.3s	22.3	 So you can get your food shipped every two to three weeks, whatever works for you. They have all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=26.1s	26.1	 the brands out there. So you'll be able to find a food that's good for your individual dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=30.0s	30.0	 They've also made it real easy to try out their service. You just enter code Zack30 and they'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=34.2s	34.2	 give you $10 off your first three auto shipment orders. Okay, let's get to training Rosie.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=39.1s	39.1	 Rosie is a golden retriever and she's beautiful. And so I'm just meeting her right now for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 first time. Let's touch her paws and see what happens. Is she real sensitive there?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=47.8s	47.8	 Oftentimes the dog's feet are really sensitive. So that kind of, there's a little bit of biting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=52.1s	52.1	 there. So that might sometimes trigger some biting saying, Hey, let go of me. Let's try her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 ears for a second. Pretty good. Pretty good. She's reacting really well. What a great dog you are.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=62.4s	62.4	 Let me see if we can get her interested in this toy. Here, I want to make it really exciting for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=66.5s	66.5	 her rather than just offering it. I'm going to move it around a little, see if she wants to bite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 it. I'm going to let her win there and just kind of let her have it. Look at that. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=75.0s	75.0	 toss it right there. I'm seeing if she's going to turn just ever so slightly here. If she picks it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=81.5s	81.5	 up, let's find out. Come on. You can do it. Yes. Good. I'll take it. A little bit of a fetch there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=86.9s	86.9	 So Rosie's got real healthy play dry, but let's see if she's motivated by treats. Even though these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=91.5s	91.5	 are the full size treats, since they're soft, I break them up into really tiny pieces. I want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=96.0s	96.0	 be able to use a lot of treats. Come here. Come to me voluntarily. Cause you know, it might be tempting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=103.7s	103.7	 when you call your dog like that to go and pick them up. But if you can get them to voluntarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=108.1s	108.1	 go through the motions and take each individual step towards you, you're showing your dog how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=112.6s	112.6	 to think from the inside outward. So it really pays when you have a puppy to go real slow,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 take the time to show them how you want them to behave. If you truly want them to internalize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 behaviors, I'm testing how responsive she is to lure training, right? There was a sit. That was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=128.6s	128.6	 very good. Let's see if she'll go into a lie down as we lure her. It's going to go real slow. Remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=138.5s	138.5	 real slow. Oh, almost. I probably should have rewarded that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=142.0s	142.0	 If she moves one of those feet, I'm going to go ahead and reward.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=146.6s	146.6	 Yes, there we go. There's almost a down. That's a down. Look at that. How do your back legs do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=152.8s	152.8	 anyway? That good. All right. So we've lured her into a sit into a down. Now let's see if we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=159.4s	159.4	 get her back up into a sit. Yes. I can see here that she's pretty motivated by these, but I'll bet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=165.5s	165.5	 you if we up the value of our currency, we could get even better results right now. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=170.4s	170.4	 try and use some real turkey and see how she responds to that. And you can already see her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=174.1s	174.1	 lighting up a little bit more here because we're using a higher value currency. Let's spin around.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=178.6s	178.6	 So oftentimes with young puppies, they're not used to wearing a harness or a leash like this. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=183.0s	183.0	 curious to see how she responds to walking around on a leash. What are you saying? Just walking back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=188.2s	188.2	 and forth to get her used to following me right there. She's like, I don't know if I want to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=192.2s	192.2	 over there. I want to go over here. Come on. Yes. Good. I'm providing that extra incentive to her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=199.8s	199.8	 to encourage her to come to me by giving her a treat. Good work. Back here. She's scratching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=207.3s	207.3	 a lot. That's because she has a harness on that she's not used to. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=214.5s	214.5	 Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=220.8s	220.8	 Yes. Good. This way. Good. Come on. Let's go this way. Give me another one. And good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=228.1s	228.1	 So right there, I got a burst of compliance from her and I'm going to reward that. Hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=232.6s	232.6	 give me an update on how your training is going with your dog in the comments below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=236.0s	236.0	 Click thumbs up if you enjoyed today's training session with Rosie. Make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=239.5s	239.5	 to my channel. Pick up a copy of my book too, if you need help with training your dog and make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upYPEnDWurA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=387&pp=iAQB&t=243.2s	243.2	 your life easier by setting up automatic pet food delivery at PetFlow. We'll see you guys next time.
