https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Bourbon, I hate to tell you this, but I'm supposed to be hosting this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=5.4s	5.4	 Today's video is sponsored by pet flow click thumbs up for bourbon the Australian cattle dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=10.4s	10.4	 She's joining me today. Make sure you subscribe to my channel bourbon. You're supposed to herd cattle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=14.6s	14.6	 I'm not a cattle pick up a copy of America's number one best-selling dog training book dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=19.2s	19.2	 Revolution and follow us on Instagram to keep up with us between videos today bourbon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=23.6s	23.6	 And I am gonna take a few of your questions, and I want to thank our awesome sponsor pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=28.4s	28.4	 Yeah, I know they are awesome aren't they by changing the way you buy your dog food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=32.2s	32.2	 You're helping to change the way people think about training dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=34.6s	34.6	 You can save a ton of time by setting up automatic pet food delivery from pet flow choose your dog's favorite brand of food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=41.4s	41.4	 Yes, tell pet flow how often you want it to be delivered and enter code Zack 30
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=47.3s	47.3	 Zack 30 when you check out for $10 off your first three orders
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=51.7s	51.7	 I'll have pet flows link and details in the description the questions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=55.3s	55.3	 I've selected today come from YouTube patreon Facebook and all over the place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=59.4s	59.4	 So wherever you guys follow us we pay attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=61.6s	61.6	 The first question comes from malak hasham and they are asking about indoor potty training tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=67.4s	67.4	 So when you're training your dog to do their business inside instead of outside, there's really not a whole lot of difference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=74.4s	74.4	 I mean instead of taking them outside to the grass you would obviously take them to the area where they're supposed to do their business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=80.4s	80.4	 Inside so it could be something like a puppy pad or any other designated area that you've determined to be an acceptable place for them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=87.3s	87.3	 To pee and poop a lot of people have a need for their dog to go inside the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 Maybe because they live in a giant apartment and it's very inconvenient to take them out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=95.3s	95.3	 But other people do it as a means of convenience so they don't have to let their dog out as much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=99.3s	99.3	 But if you are going to do this you still have to really follow through on your training and keep your dog on leash and strictly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 Control their environment at all times so in other words just because you're allowing them to go to a designated place inside the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=113.6s	113.6	 Doesn't mean that you should just assume that they're supposed to figure that out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=117.0s	117.0	 You need to definitely be proactive about taking them there and showing them the proper place to go for the first year of training with all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=124.4s	124.4	 Potty training you cannot slack on controlling the environment or let your guard down at all this next question comes from Michael Shane
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=132.5s	132.5	 Michael says I have a puppy who doesn't like to walk outside and she'll lie down on the grass and I have to pour until
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=138.3s	138.3	 She starts to walk okay well in general
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=141.1s	141.1	 It's a good idea not to pull your dog to force them that's only likely to kind of increase their anxiety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=146.0s	146.0	 But I know exactly what you're talking about Michael
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=148.0s	148.0	 It is really common especially with puppies for them to freeze up especially if they're new to a leash and a harness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=153.5s	153.5	 Because that's a weird feeling and they don't really understand this whole idea of being tethered to a person just yet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=159.0s	159.0	 So it's important to be really patient and understanding with them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=161.9s	161.9	 So many different things can throw a dog off when they're new to the world it could be something as simple as a different surface
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=167.5s	167.5	 Maybe they're not used to grass or concrete or wood or carpet or any other number of things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 Could be as simple as some new smell that they've never sensed before at a park that really catches their attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=177.2s	177.2	 And they may not be so eager to go on a walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=179.8s	179.8	 They'd rather kind of stay right here and check out this new setting for example new surfaces sounds and sights really can throw dogs off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 Especially when they're young so some things that you can do to encourage your dog to walk with you on leash art
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=190.8s	190.8	 Of course to lure them with really high-value treats consider real meat over regular dog treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=196.4s	196.4	 That's gonna give you a more of an edge when you're competing with lots of distractions getting peppier and getting more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 Enthusiastic and excited with your dog is also likely to encourage them to be more playful, but you can't really rush this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=207.9s	207.9	 It's important to take your dog to these new places and new areas wherever you're struggling with them on leash walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=213.6s	213.6	 And just be patient let them walk around let them take in the new place and the environment our next question comes from Paul
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=219.7s	219.7	 Deepak I have a five-week-old golden retriever when you should I start training five weeks is pretty young to start training see it's ideal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=226.5s	226.5	 For a dog to be with their mother for the first ten weeks or so of their life because they learn social skills from their litter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=233.5s	233.5	 Bates and from their mom that can really help them throughout their life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=236.9s	236.9	 Nonetheless some dogs do get separated from their mom or get lost or abandoned or any number of reasons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 You find yourself in this position with a super young dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=245.6s	245.6	 It's important to make sure that they get plenty of time with people and other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=249.6s	249.6	 Vaccinated dogs so that they can really acquire some of those social skills that are necessary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=254.3s	254.3	 But you can start to focus on some basic easy training like lure training sit lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=259.1s	259.1	 Maybe an easy stay maybe even some fun tricks at around eight to ten weeks or so this next question is from Patti MacArthur
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 My dog plays keep away with fetch running away helps, but what else can I do Patti?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=271.2s	271.2	 I love that you're teaching your dog fetch and playing chase running away from them like you described is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=275.9s	275.9	 Wonderful way to teach a dog to bring a toy back to you, but it's not foolproof
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=280.2s	280.2	 See keep away is a really natural game for dogs in fact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=283.9s	283.9	 It's one of the most natural games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=285.1s	285.1	 They know how to play that and tug-of-war for many dogs so we can't fault them for doing something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=289.3s	289.3	 That's natural to them so many people really try to bypass
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=292.9s	292.9	 Using a long lead say 20 feet or so when teaching fetch they think I can probably get by with it because my dog's somewhat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=300.2s	300.2	 Compliant but even as I have bourbon on a leash right here right now. You know right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=305.4s	305.4	 She tried to pull away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=306.3s	306.3	 This is my fail safe so I can gain control
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=309.1s	309.1	 The first thing to keep in mind when you're trying to bring any bad habit to an end is to make it impossible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=314.5s	314.5	 To occur your dog can't run away if you have them on a lead and see look as I throw it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=320.8s	320.8	 I'm grabbing the lead here on the ground just in case she decides to go in the other direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=325.1s	325.1	 To try and initiate a game of keep away let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=328.8s	328.8	 Get it see picking up the lead the second I throw it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=331.6s	331.6	 I'm just keeping her from running away the leash is best used as a safety net
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=336.3s	336.3	 Once your dog comes to really appreciate and enjoy the thrilling game of fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=341.2s	341.2	 They're a lot more likely to avoid running around because hey chasing it bringing it back in a straight line
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=346.6s	346.6	 Turns out to be much more fulfilling than running around aimlessly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=350.2s	350.2	 Plus that's the only way that the game will continue to go on is when they play it correctly as your dog tends to become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=355.5s	355.5	 A bit more reliable you can start to phase out the long lead but even for insurance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=360.0s	360.0	 It's a good idea to keep that long lead on them even longer than you might expect to just to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=365.4s	365.4	 That if there are any relapses you're there to keep the bad habit from getting established
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=370.1s	370.1	 Make sure you follow us on Instagram to keep up with us between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=373.2s	373.2	 episodes of the dog training revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=375.0s	375.0	 Pick up a copy of my book too if you've got a new dog or you just want a handy guide to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 Everything you need to know about raising your new dog subscribe to my channel and set up automatic pet food delivery at pet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=385.4s	385.4	 Flow you'll be all set bourbon. You did a good job today. I don't think I could have answered those questions without you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=391.0s	391.0	 See you guys in the next video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZJtGTECJU&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=407&pp=iAQB&t=415.4s	415.4	 You
