https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Bang
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=1.4s	1.4	 Or roll over works for me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=3.6s	3.6	 This episode is sponsored by pet flow and supported by our amazing patrons on patreon chestnut
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=9.1s	9.1	 The American Cocker Spaniel is back. Give him a thumbs up. I specifically said that's not a tug toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=14.3s	14.3	 This is a toy make sure you're subscribed to my channel too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=17.2s	17.2	 And if you're proud of the fact that you teach with modern dog training methods, check out our new t-shirts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=22.3s	22.3	 I'll have a link below today. I'm gonna cover some of the more nuanced things that are so easy to forget when you're raising a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=28.3s	28.3	 There's nothing nuanced about you though. Is there chestnut?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 You're actually nuts how ironic I just got these from Blue Buffalo and they look awesome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=36.7s	36.7	 These are Blue Wilderness trail tubs in terms of actual quality. These are one of the top rated foods for dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=42.7s	42.7	 These are really good to bring along with you too when you're spending the day with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=46.5s	46.5	 You want something really portable and something your dog's really gonna love wet food tends to be more palatable to most dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 They're also wonderful for toppers on top of your dog's food to make their kibble extra good tasting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=57.5s	57.5	 Don't eat it all save some room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=60.4s	60.4	 And see look at that resealable. That's awesome. Check out these flavors chestnut
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=64.5s	64.5	 We got top sirloin grilled chicken New York strip porterhouse. Okay, so you like filet mignon excellent choice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=70.7s	70.7	 You can see the meat and vegetables in here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=72.7s	72.7	 Neither the wilderness trail tubs nor the divine delights have any poultry byproduct meals or any other controversial ingredients
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=79.0s	79.0	 That might be the fastest I've ever seen a dog eat anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=81.7s	81.7	 You can get these from pet flow and enter code Zack 30 when you check out you'll get $10 off your first three orders
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=87.5s	87.5	 I'll have that link and discount code in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=90.1s	90.1	 Now let's talk about a few things that are so easy to forget when you're raising a new dog. Don't dominate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=95.7s	95.7	 Communicate see there's been lots of talk in recent years about the need to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=99.9s	99.9	 Dominant over your dog in order to be an effective teacher
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=102.3s	102.3	 But the truth is teaching is about building communication not exercising stern physical control over your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=109.2s	109.2	 I mean the dominant Smith and dog training is extremely widespread
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=113.2s	113.2	 Even though it's been extensively debunked by organizations like the American Veterinary Society of animal behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=118.9s	118.9	 the Association of professional dog trainers and universities thoughtful genuine teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=123.8s	123.8	 However is what will result in true communication between you and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=127.9s	127.9	 See true teaching is about walking your dog through the steps and really showing them how you want them to behave rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=134.5s	134.5	 Forcing them to behave the way you want. How's your down looking? Nice work chestnut. Your training is going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=140.7s	140.7	 Well, look at you when you adopt this mindset not only can you expect really amazing long-term results?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=145.8s	145.8	 But you'll find that building a strong foundation like this will make future training ultra easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=150.8s	150.8	 Next go beyond the basics now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=153.3s	153.3	 Even though you might think that your dog only needs to know sit stay and maybe house training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=157.6s	157.6	 That's not the case. What you must remember is that just because you think your dog needs to only learn the basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=163.5s	163.5	 Well, that doesn't mean they're gonna be content with only learning the basics. For example, if you've got a really hyper puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=168.6s	168.6	 He'll almost certainly catch on to sit lie down stay leave it in a matter of a few training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=174.0s	174.0	 But if you don't practice fetch often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=176.2s	176.2	 extensively socialize your dog around other people and teach them to listen to you in heavily distracting situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=181.7s	181.7	 You'll probably never have a dog that really listens to you reliably. Look at this kid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 He just went crazy over this mean ball. Can you even fit it in your mouth?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=190.0s	190.0	 It takes months of dedicated hands-on training with your dog and working with them in lots of different contexts to really get the results
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=197.6s	197.6	 You want three taking a step back?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=200.4s	200.4	 I mean all of us have experienced the phenomenon of asking our dog to do something like sit when we're at home and just hanging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=207.2s	207.2	 Out with them, but the moment that company comes over or we ask them to do it in public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=211.1s	211.1	 They're completely bewildered and have no idea what you're talking about anymore
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=214.8s	214.8	 It's important to remember that just because your dog demonstrates that they understand a basic concept without distractions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=221.0s	221.0	 That does not mean it's reasonable to expect them to understand these concepts in new places or around new things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=227.8s	227.8	 See teaching dogs is about taking two steps forward and one step back at all levels of their training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=234.0s	234.0	 Don't resist this by doing this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=235.8s	235.8	 You'll be much more likely to work through these instances quickly and raise the perfect dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=240.3s	240.3	 Click thumbs up for chestnut if you think he did a great job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 Make sure you check out the blue divine delights and the blue wilderness trail tums, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=247.6s	247.6	 You can get these at pet flow and you can enter code Zack 30 when you set up automatic pet food delivery to get $10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=252.9s	252.9	 Your first three orders if you've got a dog in your life pick up a copy of my book too and check out our new t-shirt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=258.8s	258.8	 Designs like this one. I'll have a link in the description and a special
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=262.4s	262.4	 Thanks to all of our patrons on patreon. You guys are awesome. Take a bow. You did a good job today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=268.4s	268.4	 perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8JE0QFyUYo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=433&pp=iAQB&t=282.8s	282.8	 You
