https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 You get the treats for not jumping on the furniture, not for jumping on the furniture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 Okay, who chose the dog for this video? This video is sponsored by Molecule and supported by our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=9.9s	9.9	 patrons on Patreon. Click thumbs up for Otto the giant Vimeron. Otto, you're like 150 pounds. What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=16.0s	16.0	 are you doing? You're not a lap dog. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel and if you haven't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=20.1s	20.1	 picked up a copy of my book yet, what are you waiting for? It's going to help you train your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=23.4s	23.4	 dog. I'll have a link below. Today, I'm going to show you the steps you need to take in order to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=27.8s	27.8	 show your dog how to stay off the furniture. Whether or not your dog is allowed on the furniture,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 that's totally up to you. I mean, there is no right or wrong answer, but maybe you would just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=37.1s	37.1	 prefer to have your own personal space or you've got allergies and you'd like to keep dog hair off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=42.2s	42.2	 of your furniture. Indoor air can be five times worse than outdoor air and we spend 90% of our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=47.2s	47.2	 time inside. This is the Molecule air purifier. It was really easy to set it up too. You just pull
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=52.5s	52.5	 it out of the box, plug it in. It does a couple of things on its own. It's super user-friendly too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=57.1s	57.1	 because of the touch screen up here and I love that it's quiet. No, I'm not going to give you a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=61.4s	61.4	 treat for jumping on the furniture, Otto. Molecule is actually the world's first molecular air
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=66.6s	66.6	 purifier. It introduces a new breakthrough science that's finally capable of destroying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=71.8s	71.8	 air pollutants at the molecular level. Otto, check it out. They provide real data here. It catches
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=77.3s	77.3	 and actually destroys particles that are a thousand times smaller than what a HEPA filter could. So,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=82.0s	82.0	 if you've got asthma, pet allergies, or you just want to know that you're breathing wonderful,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=86.2s	86.2	 clean air, you should look into Molecule. And one customer even said she was able to breathe through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=90.2s	90.2	 her nose for the first time in 15 years. But you don't have any trouble breathing through your nose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=95.0s	95.0	 at all, do you? Tell me that doesn't look like it's from the year 2030. And you don't have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=98.6s	98.6	 worry about going out and getting replacement filters because they'll automatically send those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=102.5s	102.5	 to you and they're not expensive either. Molecule's technology has been verified by science but most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=107.5s	107.5	 importantly, it's been tested by real people. For $75 off your first Molecule order, you can go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=112.7s	112.7	 Molecule.com, that's Molecule with a K, and enter promo code Zack George when you check out. I'll have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=118.1s	118.1	 the link and details in the description. Otto, we got to teach you how to stay off the furniture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=122.1s	122.1	 because you're out of control, man. Between you and me, I actually don't mind when dogs get on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=125.9s	125.9	 furniture, but we still have a lesson to teach here. If your dog has an established habit of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=130.2s	130.2	 jumping on the furniture like Otto does, you're going to have to be extra vigilant about enforcing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=135.0s	135.0	 the new rules. You're probably going to find yourself in one of two positions. Either you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=138.6s	138.6	 trying to break the habit of your dog jumping on the furniture, that's the position that Otto's in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=143.1s	143.1	 or you're trying to prevent the habit from becoming established in the first place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=147.0s	147.0	 Prevention is ideal because it takes a lot more work to change a bad habit that's already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=151.6s	151.6	 established than it does to prevent it to begin with. By having your dog on leash when you're first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=156.0s	156.0	 training them and carefully controlling their environment, you're in a much better position to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=160.2s	160.2	 accomplish this. But if you're like most people, you've probably given your dog a little bit too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=164.5s	164.5	 much freedom too early on and they've gradually taken over every comfy surface in your house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=169.2s	169.2	 And that might be fine for a lot of you. And I always say, if it's okay with you, it's okay with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=173.0s	173.0	 me. Let's start with how to be preemptive in order to prevent your dog from jumping on the furniture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=177.0s	177.0	 to begin with. A prerequisite for this is stay with distance while you walk away. So let's see how Otto's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=182.9s	182.9	 doing with this. This isn't going to work, Otto. You're supposed to be down here. I'm supposed to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=187.4s	187.4	 be up there. This looks nothing like stay with distance. Come on over here. You can do it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=192.4s	192.4	 Come on. Let's go. Yeah, there we go. Off the couch. I love it. That was excellent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=197.0s	197.0	 All right. Now let's go with a sit. Perfect. Stay. That's looking good too. But I want to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=204.7s	204.7	 able to walk away. Anytime you add distance to something, it makes it much more challenging.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=209.0s	209.0	 Stay. Pretty good. I was able to move away about a foot there between our eyes. That's how I measure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=215.3s	215.3	 distance when I'm practicing stay with distance, the distance between your eyes. Look at me. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=222.0s	222.0	 Yes. Good. So that's sit stay. But really a more reliable stay tends to be a down stay for most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=228.1s	228.1	 dogs. So let's see if we can get him to lie down and stay. Lie down. I'll lure him into a down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=235.8s	235.8	 He's more of a default sitter than a default downer. Now most dogs are used to holding their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=240.7s	240.7	 stay in this type of really rehearsed training situation. But when you change an element, like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=245.8s	245.8	 sit down on the couch, for example, they may think it's over. Stay. So my goal here is to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=253.0s	253.0	 able to sit down just like that. Stay. Good. Nice. Stay. And notice here how my attention is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=261.3s	261.3	 completely focused on him. Okay. Good job. Because once your attention is divided, your dog isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=266.6s	266.6	 going to pay too much attention to you. At least most dogs won't. And did you notice that the second
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=270.7s	270.7	 I started talking to the camera, my attention is divided and he's like, oh, I don't have to listen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=274.6s	274.6	 anymore. You are a weird dog. You're doing a great job. Look at that automatic down. I'm just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=280.2s	280.2	 going to go ahead and reward that too. He lied down without me asking him. And ultimately this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=285.0s	285.0	 is the behavior we want to get. It's automatic. Automatic. His name is Otto. And even if your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=290.2s	290.2	 isn't brilliantly holding their stay, if they're showing restraint of any kind where they otherwise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=295.5s	295.5	 would get on the couch, then try to go out of your way to acknowledge that as well. It's important to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=299.6s	299.6	 have treats at room temperature so that you can easily get to them. Being a good dog. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=304.4s	304.4	 excellent. I like that you're holding a down stay. You're not on the furniture right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=308.4s	308.4	 When you catch your dog being good, just like this, don't waste those opportunities to reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=313.3s	313.3	 them with genuine, sincere praise. And of course, a nice little food reward can go a long way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 creating a positive association with this kind of behavior. We know that he has it in him to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=325.6s	325.6	 hold a down stay while I sit on the couch. If we really enforce the rules in the beginning,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=330.7s	330.7	 you're going to need to do this for several minutes at a time. Your dog really needs to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=334.6s	334.6	 understand that you're going to insist that they hold that stay rather than jumping on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=339.1s	339.1	 furniture. So consistency is extra key when teaching this. We're not waiting for Otto to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 jump on the couch to then say, Hey, bad dog, get down. You always have to be aware of where your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=348.6s	348.6	 dog is. So you've got to keep an eye on them out of the corner of your eye. Even if you're on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=352.1s	352.1	 couch, maybe you're on your iPad or watching TV or whatever it is, but you must be ready to snap
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=358.0s	358.0	 into training mode at a moment's notice. It might feel like you're not getting anywhere. The first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=362.3s	362.3	 several days that you attempt to teach this, because this isn't exactly intuitive for dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=366.7s	366.7	 I mean, let's face it, dogs like to be near us and they certainly love soft, comfortable surfaces too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=371.8s	371.8	 But of course there are going to be times where your dog does jump on the couch. If the habit is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=376.8s	376.8	 well established, what if your attention gets divided and your dog does get up on the couch?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=380.8s	380.8	 If your dog indicates that they're about to get up and attempt to jump on the furniture,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=384.1s	384.1	 you should intervene and promptly put them back into a stay. This is what we call redirecting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=388.6s	388.6	 And this is how we show them what we'd prefer they do rather than punishing them after the fact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=393.1s	393.1	 which is much less effective. Otto, I think we're going to exceed the weight limit of this couch,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=397.4s	397.4	 but this is how we redirect. Let me show you. Here's a treat. Come here over here. Good. Notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=402.9s	402.9	 I didn't pull him off the couch. I didn't lift him off the couch. Sit. Good work. Nice job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=410.5s	410.5	 I got him to do it voluntarily because if you force your dog to do something, they're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=414.7s	414.7	 learning. You have to actually show them how to go through the motions and make that extra effort.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=419.4s	419.4	 That's how you get real results. And you might be wondering, did we just reward him for getting on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=424.2s	424.2	 the couch? We're going to redirect him. All right. So I've got the treat right here. We're going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=428.7s	428.7	 show him, Hey, look, I got the treat over here, but I'm not just going to give him the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=431.8s	431.8	 The last thing I want to do is reinforce. Hey, you jump on the couch, you get a treat. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=435.8s	435.8	 going to ask him to sit. Now I'm going to put him into a lie down. I'm going to have him stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=440.5s	440.5	 And I'm going to reward that behavior. The better you get at redirecting, the better trainer you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=447.4s	447.4	 going to be. And you may have to redirect dozens and dozens, if not hundreds of times, especially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=452.0s	452.0	 if you're trying to break a bad habit. Again, that's normal. And that's why consistency is so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=456.6s	456.6	 important when teaching dogs. Let's make sure that Otto really understands this concept and make it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=461.6s	461.6	 extra tempting for him. We're going to put something he loves up here on the couch. You are not getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=466.6s	466.6	 this chicken. The reason we're doing this is to really tap into Otto's ability to control his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=471.3s	471.3	 impulses. So we're going to make it a little extra hard for him. This is a great way to proof this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=476.2s	476.2	 behavior. If they'll stay off the couch, even when there's something amazing on it, then they'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=480.6s	480.6	 probably stay off it when it's just being a normal couch. Leave it over here. I'm going to redirect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=486.6s	486.6	 them from the chicken. Look at that. Do you see that? I didn't have to touch them. There was a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=490.9s	490.9	 whole chicken right there and I use the treats. I'm going to do it again. This is tough. It smells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=495.7s	495.7	 so good. All right, stay. Good. And my goal is to be able to sit next to that cooked chicken on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=501.9s	501.9	 couch and see how well he does and make sure he doesn't jump up there trying to get it. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=512.6s	512.6	 Sit. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=518.3s	518.3	 Yes. Okay. Good work. Nice work. Everything is okay except going after that chicken or getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=524.5s	524.5	 on the couch right now. So even if he doesn't do great with stay, the fact that he's not jumping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=528.8s	528.8	 on the furniture is what I'm really focused on. This is how we pick our battles when we're teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=533.2s	533.2	 dogs. Stay. Oh, look at that. Now I love that. He just went into a down stay right there. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=543.1s	543.1	 to give him a jackpot reward because he's very persistent about trying to get to the chicken,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=547.4s	547.4	 but this is great. You're doing a good job, buddy. So I've got a down stay while there's a chicken
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=551.3s	551.3	 sitting next to me. That's awesome. As a reminder, if you catch your dog getting on the furniture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=555.9s	555.9	 while you're in the other room, this means you're not controlling the environment well enough. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=559.7s	559.7	 a really easy mistake to make. As with most types of training, a regularly exercised dog makes for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=565.2s	565.2	 much more compliant dog. So make sure you're polishing up those fetch skills too. Click thumbs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=569.8s	569.8	 up for auto. I mean, look at the self-control he exhibited today. Get $75 off your first order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=574.6s	574.6	 when you get a Molecule air purifier at Molecule.com. Molecule with a K and enter promo code Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=581.0s	581.0	 when you check out that link and details will be in the description. Subscribe to my channel,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=584.9s	584.9	 check out our new t-shirts. I'll have that link below and make sure you've got a copy of my book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=589.6s	589.6	 Dog Training Revolution. It'll help you teach your dog. I know you'll enjoy it. We'll see you guys in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5kstTBK0ks8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=434&pp=iAQB&t=595.1s	595.1	 the next video.
