https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Did you know Dobermans were actually invented by a tax collector to protect him while he was collecting taxes?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=6.5s	6.5	 Can't say that I blame him. Today's episode is sponsored by BarkBox and supported by our incredible patrons on patreon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=12.8s	12.8	 Thank you. Click thumbs up for Piper the two-year-old rescue Doberman and subscribe to this channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=18.1s	18.1	 Hey, I gotta see over you. You're so tall. Guess what?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=20.8s	20.8	 I've got a new teespring store with some awesome merchandise that you guys are gonna love. I'll have a link below. Today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=26.1s	26.1	 I'm gonna show you how to teach your dog something useful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=28.8s	28.8	 Let's see what our new bark box is all about this month. Oh, it's an Alice in Wonderland theme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=33.1s	33.1	 She's lightin up for it. Will you let go please?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=35.2s	35.2	 It's gonna be an interesting training lesson look at the unique sounds and textures that these toys make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 What kind of Doberman plays tug-of-war with a mushroom? Piper at some point we're gonna have to film a training video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=44.6s	44.6	 I bet these treats will get your attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=46.1s	46.1	 I was trying to show the camera that all of their edibles are made in the USA and Canada and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=51.2s	51.2	 Carefully selected to be healthy and satisfying. Give me that rabbit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=55.2s	55.2	 I've been getting these bark boxes for a long time now because it's so convenient to have all this awesomeness shipped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=60.5s	60.5	 Automatically to my door every month. Look how tough these toys are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=63.4s	63.4	 It's like having a swordfish on a fishing pole. That poor flamingo Piper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=67.4s	67.4	 I mean Piper likes all the things in the bark box
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=69.8s	69.8	 But if there was something she didn't like bark box would replace it absolutely free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=73.9s	73.9	 They can cater your dog's box to their individual needs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=77.1s	77.1	 Including how big or small your dog is or how much they like to destroy their toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=81.1s	81.1	 They can also take into account allergy or dietary preferences for the treats too and guess what you can get your dog a free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=87.1s	87.1	 Bark box when you sign up for a six or twelve month subscription at bark box comm slash dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=92.9s	92.9	 I'm gonna have a link in the description below
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=94.9s	94.9	 It can be really useful to teach your dog how to bring you things from time to time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=98.3s	98.3	 But even if you don't need them to do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 This is a fantastic way to challenge them and to build your mutual communication together that teaching your dog to retrieve something is much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=107.2s	107.2	 Different than fetch see when you're teaching your dog how to play fetch
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=110.1s	110.1	 They're chasing a moving object picking it up and bringing it back to you and so on but you know what it can be much more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=116.0s	116.0	 Challenging to teach your dog to pick up an item
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 That's not a toy and that's just sitting there doing nothing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=121.2s	121.2	 So our goal for this training session is to teach Piper how to pick up an object
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=125.2s	125.2	 That's not moving at all and how to bring it to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=128.1s	128.1	 What do you think? Can you do it before you can teach your dog how to pick something up and bring it to you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=132.2s	132.2	 You first have to show them that it's okay to bite on it and pick it up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=135.5s	135.5	 So don't use anything too valuable at this point Piper isn't really paying much attention to this blanket at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=141.1s	141.1	 So my goal is to see if I can make it really exciting and interesting for her try and make it more enticing wiggle it around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=146.8s	146.8	 Make it interesting. It might take a little bit of coaxing with some dogs, but look she seems pretty comfortable biting it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=152.4s	152.4	 Don't worry. The goal isn't to always have your dog play vigorous tug with a blanket or any other object
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=157.3s	157.3	 They're picking up like this. We're just trying to get her comfortable with the item and let her know it's okay to grab it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=162.5s	162.5	 We can work on softening that bite in exchange for some fun tug toy time later on yeah Piper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=167.6s	167.6	 You're definitely interested in the blanket. That's good, but that's a far cry from a proper retrieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 I now want to see if I can set it on the ground while it's not moving at all and see if I can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=176.6s	176.6	 Her to pick it up the best time to get your dog to pick up a non moving boring object is right after it stops moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=183.6s	183.6	 Get it. Yes. Good. So she took the opportunity to jump right into it and get it right after it stopped moving. Let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=190.9s	190.9	 Hey good let go right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=192.4s	192.4	 She's starting to improve on her let go the more we practice this and that's what I mean by training things like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=197.1s	197.1	 You're not just training the task
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=198.7s	198.7	 I mean look how we're improving her tug and let go skills which will translate into other aspects of training later on and I'm still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=204.8s	204.8	 Gonna make this a toy with her and let her know it's okay to tug it just because this is a really fragile time if I start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=210.6s	210.6	 Holding her to such a high standard of pick it up gently and bring it to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=214.6s	214.6	 Then I fear that she's not gonna be as into it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=217.0s	217.0	 We are gonna have to work on that vigorous tug later on let go it's clearly not interesting at all right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 It hasn't been interesting for many many seconds at this point. She's completely disengaged from it as a toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=227.4s	227.4	 Do you see that blanket right there? Will you pick it up?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=230.4s	230.4	 Get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=231.3s	231.3	 Go on she's thinking about it. All right, so this is gonna take a little bit of work. Hey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 What's this? Yes. Oh right there see and just by pepping up a little bit myself and getting a little bit more interesting instead of being like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=243.0s	243.0	 Get it get it. I'm gonna get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=245.0s	245.0	 Get it get it. I'm not being boring. You know at least to her. I'm not hopefully you also agree
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=251.2s	251.2	 But now it's time to phase in distance in other words
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=254.0s	254.0	 I want Piper to get that blanket while I'm a bit farther away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 But you can't just do this all at one time you have to gradually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 Introduce distance with more advanced things like this when she picks it up this time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=265.2s	265.2	 I'm gonna run in the opposite direction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=266.9s	266.9	 And then see if I can get her to follow me with the item in her mouth remember dogs like to chase us if we make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=272.4s	272.4	 It fun. Oh, you forgot your blanket what I'm really trying to communicate to her is hey after you pick that item up come and find me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=279.6s	279.6	 The trick here is to keep all the training action up close and only gradually extend the distance as she steadily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=285.9s	285.9	 Improves the best time to go for another success is right after a success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 Get it. Hey, what's that? Come on Piper over here. Good girl. Will you get the blanket?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=296.5s	296.5	 Good bring it to me now. Wait, will you let go?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=300.3s	300.3	 Whoa, you can see we're really starting to evolve this behavior to something that resembles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=306.4s	306.4	 Hey, go give me that blanket and drop it over here without destroying it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=310.2s	310.2	 I'm gonna see now if we can get Piper to go and pick up the blanket without me having to kind of escort her there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=315.5s	315.5	 I expect she'll be a little confused because this is a pretty big step go get the blanket
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=321.7s	321.7	 Okay, so she's gonna chew on it this is particularly challenging because I'm way over here and she's way over there Piper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=328.4s	328.4	 Bring it to me. Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=330.1s	330.1	 Piper Piper Piper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=331.2s	331.2	 This is one of the fun things about training like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=334.0s	334.0	 Can I motivate her to pick that blanket up and bring it to me?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=337.8s	337.8	 Without me touching her or forcing her in any way to do it. The goal here is to make her want to do it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=343.0s	343.0	 Come here. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=345.9s	345.9	 Just by shortening my training bubble with her there and getting a bit closer. She was more motivated and enthusiastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=352.1s	352.1	 About bringing the blanket to me. She's got that habit of going up there and lying down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=356.0s	356.0	 So what that tells me is I am indeed working too far away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=359.3s	359.3	 I need to do this a bit closer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=361.4s	361.4	 Throughout all of your training always be prepared to take steps back and kind of repair things as necessary in different situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=368.6s	368.6	 That's really a normal part of teaching dogs. I'm gonna ask her to do it up here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=372.2s	372.2	 But when she goes to pick up the blanket, I'm gonna go way back there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=377.1s	377.1	 Come on right there. Do you see that Piper over here? Come? Yes. There it is. I'll take that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=382.6s	382.6	 So this whole time we've been using this blanket as a currency here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=385.9s	385.9	 So she would go and pick it up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=387.0s	387.0	 I'd play some tug-of-war with her and that's all fine for introducing the concept
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=391.1s	391.1	 But we want her to pick it up a bit more gently. So I've still got to reward her. What are we to do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=396.8s	396.8	 I'm gonna transition the reward into a game of tug-of-war with her see over time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=401.7s	401.7	 Rewarding like this will help me tame her bite since she's going to learn that she'll get an outlet for more enthusiastic tugging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=407.9s	407.9	 The more delicate she is when she picks up the item that I'm asking her to retrieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=412.2s	412.2	 That's why you've got to practice this a lot so that you can find and heavily reward instances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=417.4s	417.4	 Even if they're accidental where your dog handles the objects delicately that could take dozens to hundreds of attempts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=423.9s	423.9	 Depending on a lot of factors. She clearly identifies right here that the tug toy is something she likes to play with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=430.2s	430.2	 So I have to show her this whole concept of biting this more delicately letting go of it and then biting this vigorously
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=436.2s	436.2	 So that it's worth her while to do stuff for me. This is how I reward her getting her into this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=440.8s	440.8	 Alright, let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=442.4s	442.4	 Go. Yes good, and I showed her the tug toy. I'm gonna let her know this one's okay to bite get it. Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=448.9s	448.9	 Get it if you know, no ma'am if you want this you've got to get me that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=454.7s	454.7	 Leave it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=456.1s	456.1	 You can see she's really fixated on this so I've got to get her interested in this and she say no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=460.7s	460.7	 I don't want that. I want that tug toy. So I'm gonna put this out of sight for just a second
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=465.8s	465.8	 Piper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=466.9s	466.9	 Give me that blanket. Come on bring it to me. Now check this out. What's this right there? Good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=472.5s	472.5	 This we can play tug with Piper go and get me the blanket, please. Come on bring it to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=478.1s	478.1	 What's this? There it is. She's so good. I love this dog. How about teaching her to retrieve some slippers?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=483.8s	483.8	 You can see if I say get this slipper. She's not particularly interested in that and see if I can get her interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=489.6s	489.6	 Hey, what's this? Get it. Get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=493.1s	493.1	 It's okay. Yeah, there you go right there. She's like wait, I know what you're doing now. Yes. Good girl. Good. Okay. Wait easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=499.3s	499.3	 I actually don't want her to be so rough with these straight away if she picks it up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=503.8s	503.8	 I'm gonna grab that tug toy and immediately reward with the tug toy. Yes. Get it. Good. Good. Okay. Let go good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=512.1s	512.1	 Yes, get it. Okay, let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=515.1s	515.1	 Yeah, good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=516.9s	516.9	 Good job. All right, let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=520.1s	520.1	 Okay ready get it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=525.6s	525.6	 Get it. Yes. Good. Yeah, let go you want this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=530.8s	530.8	 Yeah, good. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=533.3s	533.3	 So now that she's understanding this general concept
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=536.5s	536.5	 I feel more confident about encouraging a softer bite with something new in exchange for this more vigorous bite over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=543.1s	543.1	 Get it. Bring it to me. Let go. Yeah. Oh man
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=548.0s	548.0	 Go and get me a slipper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=552.0s	552.0	 Come on come on let go yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=554.8s	554.8	 I mean you can see the light bulb going off right now in that very intelligent brain of hers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=560.0s	560.0	 But I'm still one slipper short let go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=563.9s	563.9	 Will you please go get me that slipper? All right, so she's a little confused. I'm not going to insist that she just do it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=569.1s	569.1	 I'm gonna shorten my training bubble
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=571.5s	571.5	 Over here and see now the action between me the slipper and her is closer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=575.3s	575.3	 I think she's more likely to pick it up now that everything's closer together good. Yes. Come here. Let go good girl
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=581.5s	581.5	 That's it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=582.7s	582.7	 It would be really awesome if I could get her to go get one slipper at a time bring it to me and then reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=587.6s	587.6	 So that way I'm rewarding for two successes with one reward and that's how you start to intermittently reward
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=592.7s	592.7	 Eventually, you don't have to reward excessively at all. Piper go get me the other slipper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=597.6s	597.6	 Come here. Will you get me this other one?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=600.7s	600.7	 Bring it to me good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=602.7s	602.7	 Bring it to me good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=605.5s	605.5	 Come on, oh look at that both of them. How about that? Oh, you're so great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=610.5s	610.5	 Here you go. Take your reward. Let's see if we can teach her how to get her own leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=614.6s	614.6	 Piper get your leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=617.1s	617.1	 You see how dogs don't generalize this concept from object to object very well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=620.9s	620.9	 That's why it's really important to work with them on lots of different objects in different settings and environments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=626.9s	626.9	 And really do that a lot if you're committed to teaching something like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=629.9s	629.9	 So this time i'm going to try and reward her with treats and this should change the dynamic a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=634.1s	634.1	 Yes, good right there. So I you know, i'm kind of pushing her around and playing with it. Good. Good. Let go. Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=640.7s	640.7	 Good, I want to let her know that amount of pressure is what i'm looking for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=643.7s	643.7	 So i'm interrupting it with a treat the moment i'm i'm satisfied with the level that she's tugging on it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=652.3s	652.3	 Come on come on come on bring it to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=655.0s	655.0	 Me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=656.2s	656.2	 Piper yes, there it is. Good girl. They could take three to five training sessions just to get this far
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=661.9s	661.9	 So don't be discouraged if your dog doesn't pick it up quite as quick click thumbs up for Piper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=665.7s	665.7	 If you think she did a good job today get your free bark box when you sign up for a six or 12 month plan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=670.5s	670.5	 I'll have a link in the description subscribe to my channel pick up a copy of my book and check out our new teespring store
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=676.0s	676.0	 Too. I promise you we're gonna have some stuff in there that you're gonna love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdFka56hAtM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=444&pp=iAQB&t=684.6s	684.6	 You
