https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today is the day. This is the vlog where we surpass one million subscribers. Indy's hanging
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=7.2s	7.2	 out with us by the way. How many subscribers are we getting? Keep going. Is this real life?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=13.8s	13.8	 Ouch! Oh, it is. All right. No, I don't know. I didn't want to feel the pain. Back in 2006,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 when I made this YouTube channel, I made it in order to show people how to teach their dogs and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=27.0s	27.0	 really have fun with them. And back in those days, I was just experimenting and having a good time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=32.0s	32.0	 with YouTube. It was instantly clear to me that that was going to be a powerful thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=36.5s	36.5	 This is my 12th year on YouTube. Tell me the year you subscribed to my YouTube channel in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=41.4s	41.4	 comments below. It was when Superfetch happened. So that was 2009, right? For those of you that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=45.9s	45.9	 are new, I've had two TV shows in the past decade. I had one on Animal Planet called Superfetch,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=51.0s	51.0	 where we taught dogs amazing fun tricks. And then I had another show on the BBC. It was a children
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=57.8s	57.8	 show called Who Let the Dogs Out, where we basically showed young British kids how to train their dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=63.6s	63.6	 and really look for some of the most elite youthful talent in dog training in the UK. So that show was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=70.3s	70.3	 a lot of fun to make too. Well, we do use a lot of what you learned in TV in our own production. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=77.0s	77.0	 I think that really helped us up the quality of our videos because Zach got a good lesson in how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=83.6s	83.6	 TV shows really work. He was able to take what we like and leave what we don't like and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=88.4s	88.4	 do it our own way. Are you guys having fun? Even though we've only been together seven years,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=93.7s	93.7	 the overwhelming majority of our YouTube growth has happened with Brianna helping out with our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=100.2s	100.2	 amazing production here. I think I've been here for like over 960,000 of them. I mean, I know I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=109.0s	109.0	 benefit from YouTube all over the place when it comes to learning how to do something, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=112.7s	112.7	 not related to dog training or our film equipment or any of that. All kinds of things. You can learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=118.0s	118.0	 so much on YouTube. It's really cool to be a part of that. In the last three years, we've really grown
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=122.8s	122.8	 like tenfold. Yeah, 100,000 was fun. Yeah, I know. This is more fun. It's just it's not even so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=129.0s	129.0	 about the number as much as it is the validation because obviously if the content we made wasn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 working for you guys, you wouldn't subscribe to me. You wouldn't keep watching the videos.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=139.1s	139.1	 You wouldn't keep clicking thumbs up. It seems to really be working for you and it's just amazing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=143.8s	143.8	 to have that kind of confirmation knowing that we're able to do that. So back in 2013 when we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=149.2s	149.2	 really made a lot of changes and started taking the YouTube game a little bit more seriously,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=153.6s	153.6	 that's when we really started to look at a million. Now back then we had like what,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=156.9s	156.9	 30,000, 40,000, 50,000 subscribers, which is, you know, I was very happy with that. That was great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=162.0s	162.0	 That was enough to be the most subscribed dog trainer on YouTube back in 2013. So here it is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 2017. It took us four years of really dedicated focus to, you know, get to one million subscribers.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=173.0s	173.0	 This is the first dog training channel to get to the one million subscriber milestone. So that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=178.2s	178.2	 extra awesome. Pretty exciting. It's really been interesting to watch the dog training world go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=183.6s	183.6	 through its thing and kind of do its own evolution over the past 10 years or so. This is what I love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=188.9s	188.9	 about YouTube. It's a democratization of content and you start to really see what people like and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=196.2s	196.2	 what they find helpful. You can't, you can't really BS people on YouTube so much. 14 subscribers to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 guys. I mean, you've heard there's nothing like experience to really teach you how to do something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=207.7s	207.7	 and working with dogs has given me so much experience over the years. As much as I learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=212.0s	212.0	 about working with dogs, I also learn so much about you and your individual situations and your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=217.5s	217.5	 critiques and your criticisms, as well as your compliments and everything under the sun. The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=223.0s	223.0	 totality of all that really helps us do a better job and it teaches me so much. So that's one of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=229.6s	229.6	 really exciting things about doing this type of job too. I love when we post a video and we get to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=235.1s	235.1	 instantly see all the feedback from you guys. I think that's so cool. It's validating when we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=239.5s	239.5	 see that something we did really resonated with you and it's also really interesting to find out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=244.4s	244.4	 when we screw up and do something that you don't like so much. So we're always paying attention to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=248.5s	248.5	 what you respond to well and what you don't and your feedback really makes everything so worth it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=253.8s	253.8	 That's true. We get most of our ideas for videos from you guys. We're going to continue to evolve.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=258.1s	258.1	 We're going to continue to try different things. We also want to bring you more content. Five
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=262.7s	262.7	 subscribers to go. We're in the last five. We just lost a subscriber so we're back down to six.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=268.6s	268.6	 We have somewhere between two and three hundred people that unsubscribe every day too or close
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=272.6s	272.6	 their account or whatever. We end up netting between one and two thousand subscribers a day,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=277.5s	277.5	 at least currently. Since it's never been done before, I've always wondered for all these years,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=281.8s	281.8	 what does a dog training channel on YouTube with a million subscribers even look like?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=286.1s	286.1	 And now we know. Yeah, here we are. This is what we look like. Exactly. A lot of you were also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=290.9s	290.9	 noticing that we were about to hit a million. I've been noticing it all day, like almost to one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=294.6s	294.6	 million. Oh, three more. By the way, this video isn't sponsored, so they can't complain about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=298.9s	298.9	 advertising in this one. Well, it's kind of sponsored by our patrons on Patreon, which we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=302.9s	302.9	 had another record month on Patreon. Thank you to our patrons. If you're a professional golfer,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=307.4s	307.4	 you dream to win a major. You know what I mean? And okay, she's not much of a golfer.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=313.6s	313.6	 Hitting a million subscribers is just kind of like one of those huge career milestones.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=318.1s	318.1	 Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh, it's happening. It's actually one away. I thought.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=325.1s	325.1	 Sorry, we just lost a subscriber. Okay. Oh, there it goes. Oh, the suspense is killing me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=333.7s	333.7	 Oh my gosh, a million and one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=337.7s	337.7	 What? What is happening? Oh my gosh. Wait, you're a juice subscribe. Tell me in the comments below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 Indy, you did a good job. Click thumbs up if you enjoyed today's video. Thank you very much to all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=348.5s	348.5	 of you and all of our patrons on Patreon for supporting our videos and just, you know, just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4caJfMxip8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=449&pp=iAQB&t=353.1s	353.1	 for letting us do what we love. Yes. Thank you.
