https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by PepFlo and supported by our crowd funders on Patreon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=4.1s	4.1	 Thank you for supporting YouTube's largest independent dog training channel. I'll have a link below.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 What is that? There are so many different types of dogs out there that it can be overwhelming trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=13.8s	13.8	 to decide which dog is best for you. Today, BB8, the Alaskan Klikkai, and I are going to give you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=19.0s	19.0	 some advice on how to choose the best possible dog for you. If you're thinking about getting a new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=23.4s	23.4	 dog, definitely get my book. I wrote it with you in mind. Click thumbs up for BB8, subscribe to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=28.6s	28.6	 channel too. Have you ever noticed how choosing the right food for your dog can be harder than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=32.5s	32.5	 choosing the right dog? Neutro has so many different options so you and your dog can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=36.5s	36.5	 definitely find your favorite. All of their foods are simple and full of high quality ingredients.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=41.5s	41.5	 Wow! How do you do that? It looks like you got dizzy. Their limited ingredient diet line always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=46.1s	46.1	 has 10 key ingredients or less. A great quality protein source is always number one. Leave it alone,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=52.0s	52.0	 leave it. It's very impressive. They're 100% grain free and this one is actually chicken free. See,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=57.8s	57.8	 poultry allergies are common. And this wholesome essentials recipe will help your digestion,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=62.4s	62.4	 it'll even boost your immunity to BB8. Whatever neutral food you decide to get, get it automatically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=67.3s	67.3	 shipped to you from PetFlow and enter code ZAK30 when you check out. To get $10 off your first three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=72.3s	72.3	 orders, I'm going to have all the details in the description. This is fun. I see why dogs like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=77.1s	77.1	 so much. Probably the first question you want to ask yourself is, do you want a puppy or an adult
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=81.7s	81.7	 dog? Obviously, puppies are painfully adorable. I'd love to kiss you all day long but I have a video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=87.7s	87.7	 to shoot. But puppies also have to be potty trained and they usually go through a significant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 biting and chewing stage, all of which can take months of consistency to endure and resolve. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=96.1s	96.1	 some of the advantages are they don't know much about the world yet and you can be there to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=100.0s	100.0	 them everything and that can be so fun and help encourage an incredible bond. There's a lizard he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=104.9s	104.9	 sees. Of course, bonding with an adult dog can be just as rewarding. I mean, sure they had a life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=109.6s	109.6	 before you but it's the life they have with you that really matters. While some older dogs may
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=114.2s	114.2	 have established behavioral issues from their past life, these can usually be overcome with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=118.7s	118.7	 little bit of patience and consistency. And many older dogs already come potty trained. Huge plus.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=124.8s	124.8	 Plus, they might already know things like sit down and stay too. You're so weird. Sit. Yes. Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=131.3s	131.3	 you're a good sitter. If you hear nothing else in this entire video, hear this. When you're evaluating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=136.6s	136.6	 a dog, pay special attention to their energy level. This is the single best way to determine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 if a dog is right for you. I like to rate dogs on an energy scale of level one to level three.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=148.4s	148.4	 Now, I talk a lot more about this in my book, but basically a level one is mostly chill. These dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=153.1s	153.1	 don't usually require much training because they're so laid back that they're not likely to be as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=157.1s	157.1	 mischievous. But it can be challenging motivating a level one dog to do things like go running or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=162.4s	162.4	 to do dog sports. A level two dog is right in the middle. Sometimes they're on, sometimes they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=167.1s	167.1	 not. These are great for the semi-active person who wants to maybe play fetch with a dog or go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=171.6s	171.6	 on walks with them and then go back to their normal life. BB8 is a level two dog. High five.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=177.3s	177.3	 A level three dog is the highest energy level dog and you'll have to commit to significantly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=181.7s	181.7	 exercising them almost daily. And you'll need to do it early in the day and probably again in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=186.5s	186.5	 early evening sometimes. Level three dogs need to get all of that energy out or it can result in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=191.1s	191.1	 behavioral problems. But level three dogs are often capable of really high performance activities and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=196.1s	196.1	 complex stunts and tasks. While this may sound awesome, and it is, they're not typically for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=201.3s	201.3	 the casual pet parent. They take an extreme amount of time and attention and they'll probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 destroy your house if you don't give it to them. One note though, when evaluating a dog's energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=209.8s	209.8	 level, it's normal for many dogs to be super hyper upon meeting you for the first time. But this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=214.8s	214.8	 doesn't mean that they are an overall high energy dog. Spend some time with them and ask their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=219.0s	219.0	 caretaker about their energy level to get a more complete picture. So ask yourself, what performance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 level do you expect out of your new dog? And more importantly, how much time do you have to regularly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=228.2s	228.2	 get that energy out? That's how you decide what energy level of dog is right for you. And this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=232.4s	232.4	 should be your top consideration of a breed size or appearance. Next, you'll have to decide what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=237.4s	237.4	 size dog you want. Now don't be fooled into thinking that just because a dog is small, that there'll be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=242.4s	242.4	 less work. Think about the pros and cons of both large and small dogs. For example, sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=247.0s	247.0	 larger dogs need more space. Of course, this isn't always the case. Also, the larger the dog, the more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=252.2s	252.2	 expensive his basic needs may be. Think about how much food a Great Dane will eat compared to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=256.2s	256.2	 Chihuahua, for example. Smaller dogs often live longer and they're easier to pick up when necessary.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=261.4s	261.4	 A larger dog might be more likely to ward off strangers, though many small dogs can make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=265.8s	265.8	 excellent watchdogs too. Mix breed or purebred. Now, unless you have a really strong preference
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=271.4s	271.4	 for a particular breed, I think this is probably one of the least important considerations you need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=276.2s	276.2	 to take into account when choosing a dog. That's because personalities and energy levels vary so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=280.9s	280.9	 widely between all breeds of dogs and even within the same breed, and those factors are way more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=286.4s	286.4	 important. Many of the best dogs on the planet are mixed breed dogs. Regardless of which type of dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 you choose, make sure you check out your local shelter and rescue groups first, as they have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=295.5s	295.5	 tons of both mixed breed and purebred dogs to choose from. Click thumbs up, subscribe to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=300.2s	300.2	 channel, support us on Patreon, and decide which neutral food is best for you and your dog. I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ng58pNPDDW4&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=461&pp=iAQB&t=305.2s	305.2	 have all the links in the description. Hey, BB-8, you did a good job, buddy.
