https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 This video is sponsored by Rover and our crowdfunders on Patreon. If you think modern science-based
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=4.9s	4.9	 training is important, I'm going to have a link in the description. Over the years I've learned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=8.2s	8.2	 that there are a few core principles that will help you teach your dog regardless of what you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=11.9s	11.9	 trying to teach them. BB8's all grown up now and he's an Alaskan clique eye. Click thumbs up for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=16.8s	16.8	 BB8, subscribe to my channel, and buy my book for the long version of today's video. If only there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 was a way to get a little extra help with your dog when you get busy in life. Did you know there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=25.4s	25.4	 an app for that? Yeah, there is. Whether you just need a pet sitter for a day or someone to take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=29.8s	29.8	 care of your dog while you're on vacation, you can find a great dog walker or sitter to take care of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=34.1s	34.1	 your dog in your home or theirs. You can choose from lots of highly rated people and these reviews
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=39.2s	39.2	 are incredibly helpful. You really do start to get a sense of what these people are like when they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 interact with your dog. Oh look at Laura, she'll even send you pictures and texts. You can filter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=48.2s	48.2	 this by making sure that the person you want is available on certain days of the week. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 select for price range depending on what your budget is. And if you have questions for them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=56.3s	56.3	 you can send them a message and ask those questions ahead of time. So if you're stuck at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=59.7s	59.7	 work and you need someone to check in on or walk your dog on short notice, you just go to the app
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=63.9s	63.9	 and you can find the right person literally in minutes. For $25 off your first booking,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=68.1s	68.1	 go to rover.com slash Zach George and enter promo code Zach George when you check out. Hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=72.6s	72.6	 that's a good deal BB8. Let's go over the six indispensable secrets that I've learned which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=76.6s	76.6	 will make you a better trainer. I'm going to have a link to a playlist in the description that'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=80.4s	80.4	 show you how to teach everything we're going to cover in today's video. First and foremost,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=83.8s	83.8	 you should focus on training your dog from the inside out. Now what I mean by this is rather
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=88.5s	88.5	 than making your dog do something by forcing them, say using a pinch collar to discourage your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=93.4s	93.4	 from pulling, you should try to make your dog want to do something like motivating your dog to want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=97.7s	97.7	 to stay with you rather than pulling ahead so that the behavior emerges from the inside out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=103.2s	103.2	 See, outside in training has a ton of shortcomings. If you rely on a pinch or a choke collar to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=108.1s	108.1	 your dog not to pull on a leash, don't expect a compliant dog once those collars come off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=112.9s	112.9	 Patches are no substitute for proper dog training. Hey, let's see if you can leave it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=117.0s	117.0	 The outside in approach can sometimes be toxic to the bond that you're trying to build and it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 usually less pleasant for your dog. And the bond is the next essential cornerstone of training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=126.3s	126.3	 When you focus on building trust, respect, and understanding with your dog, having a well-behaved
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=130.6s	130.6	 dog that listens to you is a natural side effect. So how do you bond with your dog? Well, start by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=136.1s	136.1	 playing with them. Fewer things accelerate a bond faster than play. Take care of their needs and be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=141.1s	141.1	 kind, patient, and empathetic every step of the way and offer lots of love. Learning to communicate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=146.5s	146.5	 Always remember that we made dogs that were good at taking direction from and coexisting with us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 It is in their DNA. They have a very special ability to understand humans. So while it can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=156.5s	156.5	 take some time to establish fluent communication with your dog, it will happen if you're committed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 Start with the eyes. Dogs naturally look at our eyes to gather lots of information about us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 And as you get to know your dog, you'll learn a lot about them from looking at their eyes too.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=170.3s	170.3	 Communication is a two-way street. Get to know your dog's signals as well. So if your dog appears
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=175.1s	175.1	 a little bit more nervous, use a more delicate approach. And if they're excited, maybe be more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=179.4s	179.4	 peppy and enthusiastic sometimes. This will come naturally as you spend more time with your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=184.2s	184.2	 Or if they're just kind of weird, I'm going to use a weird approach with you. Focus on teaching them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=188.6s	188.6	 to be bilingual too. Use hand and verbal signals for everything you teach them. Lie down? Yes! So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=195.1s	195.1	 he responded to a real subtle lie down hand signal. Feel free to speak to your dog in complete
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=200.1s	200.1	 sentences too. In much the same way you might speak to a young child. Over time, they'll learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=204.2s	204.2	 to understand you far more than you may have ever thought possible. The more credit you give your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=209.0s	209.0	 dog, the more they'll rise to the occasion. Isn't that right BB8? Be consistent. Now this is a big
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=215.8s	215.8	 one. You are so much more likely to have the well-behaved dog that you desire if you're great at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=220.7s	220.7	 being consistent. Dog training basically boils down to this. If a dog gets a positive outcome
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=225.3s	225.3	 from a behavior, they're likely to repeat it. And if a dog gets an unfavorable outcome, well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=229.7s	229.7	 they're less likely to repeat it. All right, let's see how BB8's spin is looking. Spin! Oh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=234.6s	234.6	 he didn't spin that time. There's no need to use harsh corrections in that case. Just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=238.6s	238.6	 limit the access to the thing they want. In this case, it's a treat. That's all you have to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=242.6s	242.6	 You look like a tornado, man. Wow. When your dog does something you don't like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=255.4s	255.4	 you need to be there to show them what you do want them to do virtually every single time. For
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=260.2s	260.2	 example, if your dog is jumping on a guest, you need to be there to show them that you'd prefer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=263.8s	263.8	 that they sit instead. And when your dog does something you do like, you should be there to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=267.8s	267.8	 reward them and show them that they're on the right track almost every single time during that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=272.3s	272.3	 first year of training. Control the environment. Improperly doing this is the most common mistake
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=277.4s	277.4	 that I see. The best way to curb bad habits is to keep them from becoming established in the first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=282.2s	282.2	 place. If your dog is brand new to training, attach them to you as often as possible. And when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=286.5s	286.5	 can't have them attached to you, make sure they're in a place where undesired behaviors cannot occur.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=290.8s	290.8	 The importance of exercise. High energy dogs are the most likely to cause issues for most people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=296.6s	296.6	 but the vast majority of behavior problems can be eliminated with regular exercise. And of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=301.8s	301.8	 exercise just before training. Remember to check out my playlist in the description that will show
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=305.7s	305.7	 you how to teach your dog everything we talked about today and beyond. Click thumbs up, subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=310.1s	310.1	 to my channel and support us on Patreon. Remember, check out rover.com slash Zach George to get $25
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=315.7s	315.7	 off your first booking. That's such a good deal. Listen to BB8. Oh, you did a good job today, handsome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AVkpO7k5BGI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=463&pp=iAQB&t=324.1s	324.1	 Goofy boy.
