https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 If your dog jumps on company, begs while you're eating, gets on the furniture, or doesn't behave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 when you take them to a new place, using crate pads to show your dog how to behave can be a great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 way to get these things under control. And today, Sky Blue and I are going to show you how. Click
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=14.9s	14.9	 thumbs up for Sky Blue, subscribe to my channel for everything dog, and pick up a copy of my book for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=19.5s	19.5	 the best dog training experience possible. So there's two kinds of beds, larger thicker beds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=24.2s	24.2	 and lightweight beds. Now a lot of people overlook the versatility of using a quality lightweight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=29.2s	29.2	 bed. There's a lot of lightweight dog beds on the market and the quality is really kind of all over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=33.8s	33.8	 the place. Look at the bottom of these. This is how a lot of companies cut corners by putting these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=37.7s	37.7	 thin flimsy bottoms and just using cheap materials. Today I'm going to be using this one. This is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=42.2s	42.2	 Sleep Ease Dog Bed by Pet Dreams. These are the original highest quality lightweight dog beds on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=47.7s	47.7	 the market. Sky Blue already approves. And look, the build quality on this is superior to the other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 knockoff brands. These are double sided too. You can use them on both sides. Clearly Sky Blue already
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=59.1s	59.1	 knows how to use both sides. This training lesson is off to a fantastic start so far. Another benefit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 here is that this side, which is made from cotton, is considerably cooler in the summertime. I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=68.9s	68.9	 to have a link in the description where you can get yours. But I can't tell you how often someone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=72.9s	72.9	 gets a brand new thick expensive bed for a dog that can't differentiate between it and a chew toy. These
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=79.5s	79.5	 are a lot less expensive to replace. You can just throw the whole entire thing into the washing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=84.2s	84.2	 machine and dryer an unlimited amount of times. A thicker bed is still fantastic for support,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 especially for older, more mature dogs. But if you really want to protect that expensive dog bed,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=93.5s	93.5	 putting this on top of it will do a much better job than a bed cover. These beds fit precisely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=97.8s	97.8	 in all of the popular crate sizes too. That's a good fit. How on earth would you use these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=102.6s	102.6	 crate pads to improve your dog's behavior? Let's start with jumping. When you're trying to resolve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=107.0s	107.0	 hyperactive behavior with your dog, it's ideal to show them what you'd prefer they do rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=111.6s	111.6	 simply yelling at them for being a bad dog. So the goal is to eventually evolve your communication
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=116.9s	116.9	 to a point where you can have your dog go to a specific spot and lie down instead of say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=122.1s	122.1	 jumping all over guests when they first arrive. So we'll need to teach Sky Blue how to lie on this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=127.2s	127.2	 crate pad so that she'll have a place to go. And we need her to stay away from guests.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=132.7s	132.7	 All right. You ready to learn how to lie on your crate pad? She's obviously comfortable walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=136.5s	136.5	 back and forth on her bed over here. And let's see if we can get her to lie down on the bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 Come on over here, Sky Blue. Good. Will you sit? Okay. You're not all the way on the crate pad.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=148.3s	148.3	 Okay. You can lie down. She's on the right track. I mean, she's halfway on the crate pad, halfway off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=153.0s	153.0	 of it. Come here. Can you get all the way on it? Good. Will you lie down? Yes. Good job. I just love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=159.7s	159.7	 working on training like this when I'm hanging out, not really in a huge rush. I mean, my goal is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=164.2s	164.2	 just to get Sky Blue comfortable hanging out on her sleep ease dog bed. Lie down on your bed. Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=170.0s	170.0	 job. And I'll say something like lie down on your bed when I'm reasonably confident that I feel like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=175.4s	175.4	 she's going to lie down on her bed when I ask her to. And with Sky Blue, she's such a smart dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=180.4s	180.4	 I feel pretty comfortable teaching her the language as I go. You got turkey, you got a soft bed, life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=185.8s	185.8	 is good, isn't it? Now, in order for this training to actually be effective, it's important to practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=190.2s	190.2	 this when you have guests over so that your dog will eventually learn to hang out on their lightweight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=194.9s	194.9	 bed in that exact scenario. But maybe I don't always want Sky Blue lying in the middle of the floor.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=200.1s	200.1	 So my goal is to make this bed a bit of a magnet of sorts so that Sky will be attracted to it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=205.5s	205.5	 wherever it is. Well, let's put the bed over here and see if we can kind of encourage her to lie down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=211.8s	211.8	 over here. Yes. Good. You're doing great. I like that you're paying attention to me. So I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=215.7s	215.7	 to give you a reward. Wonderful. Lie down over here. And she's a little unsure right now. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=223.3s	223.3	 Good. Nice work. I'm not really totally positive that she's lying down on this because it's a bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=228.8s	228.8	 I think she could be lying down on it because I'm telling her to lie down right here. But my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=232.9s	232.9	 goal here is to see if I can just kind of automatically get her to go to the bed wherever it is. Get on your bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=239.2s	239.2	 Yes. Good. Let's go right here. Go on. Get on your bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=247.6s	247.6	 There it is. Nice work. You're such a smarty. Sky, get on your bed. Let's put our training to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=253.4s	253.4	 test and bring out some really delicious temptations and see if we can work on Sky
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=257.6s	257.6	 Blue's habit of begging and having her chill out on her bed while some great food is placed near her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=263.3s	263.3	 You can't try to get the food just because you think I'm not paying attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=266.2s	266.2	 Oh, she wants it. I know. Sky Blue is smart. She knows there's some pretty good taste in food on this plate right here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=275.1s	275.1	 So I'm just going to put this here just so that I can practice with some distractions or food in this case.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=280.8s	280.8	 And I'm going to move the crate pad over here and see if I can get her to lie on it rather than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=285.7s	285.7	 being super close to the chicken. So come on over here, Sky. Go on your bed. So you can see she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=292.8s	292.8	 thinking about it. Trying to teach your dog to listen to you at a distance like this is a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=296.7s	296.7	 tricky. So you have to really kind of work with them. I'm kind of picking up the pace and being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=301.3s	301.3	 exciting with her and just trying to get her into a rhythm. Come on, let's go. And you can see I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=306.1s	306.1	 escorting her over here to lie on the bed, right? And what I'm hoping is that she's going to anticipate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=311.4s	311.4	 in just a moment. Come here. Good girl. Nice work. All right, Sky, go lie on your bed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=316.2s	316.2	 Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=322.6s	322.6	 Yes. And now rather than just staying right there with her, I'm going to hang out over here. So I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=327.8s	327.8	 creating distance between food and her. I don't mind that she's looking at it, but I want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=333.8s	333.8	 make sure that she can channel the discipline to lie down on her bed when it's way across the room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=339.0s	339.0	 and the food's way over here. So I'll tell you what, just for training's sake, why don't we make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=343.8s	343.8	 it a little bit more difficult? And if our training has worked well, she'll know to stay on the bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=348.6s	348.6	 and leave the chicken alone. Good job. And this is going to be a really tricky moment. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=356.7s	356.7	 go to try and sit on the couch. Dogs are smart. She knows if I'm not right here to keep her from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=361.5s	361.5	 getting it, that she might have a shot at it, but I have faith in you, Sky. I think you can do this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=366.2s	366.2	 So now I'm able to sit over here on the couch and Sky Blue is just chilling on her crate pad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=371.5s	371.5	 with fried chicken right in front of her. I'd say she's doing a pretty good job. What do you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=376.0s	376.0	 think? I can't believe you can leave that fried chicken alone like that. I'm often asked, is it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=380.1s	380.1	 okay to let your dog on the furniture? My answer has always been, look, if it's okay with you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=384.6s	384.6	 it's okay with me. Everything is okay with permission. In other words, dogs are capable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=388.7s	388.7	 of understanding when it's okay to do something and when it's not okay to do something, provided
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=393.3s	393.3	 you take the time to teach them. But if you do let your dog on the furniture, you should still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=397.1s	397.1	 protect your furniture. And that's one of the big benefits to a crate pad. I'm not sure about you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=402.0s	402.0	 but I've never seen an attractive furniture cover. Now let's see if we can transition to having her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=406.6s	406.6	 lie on the crate pad while I put it on the couch. I like the blue side. Get on the furniture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=412.4s	412.4	 That's right. Oh, wait, on over here. Because right there, her foot was on the furniture. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=417.9s	417.9	 since I'm trying to discourage her from actually lying on the furniture itself, I want her to lie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=422.0s	422.0	 on her crate pad. And look how comfy she looks. These come in a lot of different sizes too. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=428.3s	428.3	 this one's kind of big for this couch, but that's okay. So if you spend the time really working with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=433.8s	433.8	 your dog, showing them that their sleep ease dog bed is a fun place to be, then you might find that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=439.2s	439.2	 they come to prefer it over lying anywhere else. But if you bring your dog to a friend's house,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=443.2s	443.2	 it can be really handy to have a spot that your dog knows is theirs that they can just hang out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=447.4s	447.4	 on no matter where life takes you. And since these are lightweight dog beds, they're mega
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=451.6s	451.6	 portable. I'm going to have a link in the description where you can pick yours up. All
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=455.1s	455.1	 of this training is going to go a lot smoother if your dog is getting regular exercise. And if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=459.9s	459.9	 doing a good job of preventing behaviors, you don't want to occur from happening in the first place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=465.2s	465.2	 I'm going to have a link in the description to a playlist that'll show you how to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=468.6s	468.6	 all of the basics and beyond in order. Click thumbs up for Sky Blue. Make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=473.3s	473.3	 to my channel. Thank you so much to Pet Dreams for sponsoring this video and Sky Blue, you did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRW1PVHeQhY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=476&pp=iAQB&t=478.0s	478.0	 a spectacular job.
