https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Do you have more than one dog to train? Today I'm going to show you what you need to do to get two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=4.0s	4.0	 dogs trained at the same time. Click thumbs up, make sure you're subscribed to my channel,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=8.8s	8.8	 and pick up a copy of my book Dog Training Revolution. And here's a tip, get it before you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=13.4s	13.4	 get a dog. The audio book is now available too. If you've got two puppies, you've got to get twice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=18.3s	18.3	 as much dog food for them. The most logical way to get your dog food to you is to have it automatically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=23.5s	23.5	 shipped in whatever time interval you prefer. You can do this in three steps. Choose your brand of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=28.7s	28.7	 dog food, how often you want it shipped, and enter Zack20 when you check out to receive 20%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=34.7s	34.7	 off of your first automatic shipment. I'll have all the details in the description. Today I've got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=40.2s	40.2	 Shelby with me and her family got not just one, but two awesome corgi puppies. Now, Shelby,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=46.4s	46.4	 how have you been feeling about training so far? They're cute and fun. They hop like a bunny.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=53.9s	53.9	 Now, Shelby, I'm ready to get this training session underway. How about you? Yes. Ideally,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=58.0s	58.0	 before getting more than one dog, you'll want to make sure that any current dogs you have are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=61.8s	61.8	 really up to speed on their training first. I'll have all the videos you need on that on my YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 channel. But perhaps you fell in love with two great dogs or you couldn't decide between two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=70.6s	70.6	 puppies or some other reason. So you took home two dogs at the same time. Let me be real with you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=75.7s	75.7	 You can't teach two dogs effectively and simultaneously. That's because dogs don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=80.5s	80.5	 respond well to a teacher that isn't completely focused on them. And it's impossible to give your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=85.7s	85.7	 undivided attention to two dogs at the same time. Understand that it is twice the work when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=91.1s	91.1	 you've got two dogs. Now you've got two major options. You can either work with each dog one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=96.0s	96.0	 on one and alternate them accordingly, or you can enlist the help of someone else in the family.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=100.9s	100.9	 Don't worry though, if you follow the advice I'm going to give you in this video, you'll be able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=104.0s	104.0	 to have both dogs listening to you at the same time in no time. So Shelby, what I'm thinking is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=110.0s	110.0	 that we'll do a few different things today. I'd like to start off with a leash training session.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=114.3s	114.3	 That's going to do a couple of things that will allow us to get them a little bit fatigued and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 tired. It's a lot easier to teach a dog when they've gotten some energy out. Also, it will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=122.1s	122.1	 allow us to build some communication too. Sound good? Yes. So I'm going to work with Bailey on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=126.8s	126.8	 leash walking session. I think it's really important to be able to get your dog's attention on you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=131.4s	131.4	 And one of the easiest ways to do that is to just hold up a piece of meat just like that and give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=137.2s	137.2	 them a reward like that. Now look at Bailey. Bailey is paying attention to me and I'm walking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 There's no tension on the leash. He's not trying to get to his sister over here. He's not trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=146.5s	146.5	 to run away. He's focused on me. In the first year of training, you want to use lots of treats to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=152.1s	152.1	 build communication because there's a lot of distractions at a place like a park like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=156.5s	156.5	 I've got attention and I'm going to go ahead and reward with tiny pieces of turkey here. So what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=161.1s	161.1	 do you think so far? Does that look good? Yeah. Shelby, why don't you start by having Bessie look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=165.7s	165.7	 at the treat by holding it up to your eyes? And now let's try walking backwards a little bit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=169.5s	169.5	 just kind of in a circle. And all we're trying to make sure of here is that she's checking in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=174.2s	174.2	 with you saying, Oh, I want to go where you're going. There you go. Perfect. Yes. The idea is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=178.7s	178.7	 to get her to pay attention to you while moving while on a leash in this outdoor, exciting,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=183.8s	183.8	 distracting environment. Good work. And just keep going. Look at you. You're a pro. Now I'll tell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=189.9s	189.9	 you what, why don't we see if we can get them both paying attention to us individually. We're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=194.0s	194.0	 to do that together now. Okay. Oops. See a little tough. They're too close together. So we're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=198.6s	198.6	 to give them some distance over here. Over here. Let's see if we can get them to pass now. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=204.2s	204.2	 Hold it up to your eyes and see if you can get her to go away from me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=208.8s	208.8	 Look at you. Now that was awesome. Well, here, let me see something here. I just want to prove a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=214.6s	214.6	 point here. I'd like to work with both of them on sit at the same time. So let's say that you've got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=220.6s	220.6	 two dogs, two puppies in particular, you're trying to teach them how to sit. You can't focus on both
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=225.4s	225.4	 of them at the same time. Cause if you're trying to lure one into a sit, you got one trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=229.9s	229.9	 knock the other over. There's no way to teach sit like this in any meaningful way. And it's not to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=234.9s	234.9	 say you can't get some results with them on sit, but you're just not going to get as effective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=239.6s	239.6	 results if you're trying to take shortcuts by teaching them both at the same time. So Shelby,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=243.8s	243.8	 I clearly need some help here. This just isn't working out. I'm going to work with Bailey on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=247.8s	247.8	 sit and you work with Bessie on civil. I'd like to show you something called lure training here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=252.3s	252.3	 You see the nose, we're just going to move that treat right back like that until they sit. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=257.8s	257.8	 then we're going to say sit, because normally we don't want to just tell our dogs to sit until we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=263.1s	263.1	 really feel that they understand the concept. Think about her nose like a magnet and think about the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=268.2s	268.2	 treat like a magnet. If those magnets get too far away, the connection is kind of lost. You know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=273.1s	273.1	 what? I think they're doing so well at this point that we can now start to say sit. Sit. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=279.8s	279.8	 Yes. Good, right? Sit. Good job. And see, so we have both dogs over here listening to us. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=289.4s	289.4	 Yes. We got this. This is nothing. As your dog starts to reasonably understand these things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=295.4s	295.4	 one-on-one, then you're in a position to say sit and have them both listen to you simultaneously.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=302.7s	302.7	 Shelby, you are a natural dog trainer. You have so many talents. It's amazing. We've gone over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=307.4s	307.4	 leash walking today. We've gone over how to teach them to sit. They even listen to us together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=311.5s	311.5	 Another vital skill is teaching our dogs how to come to us when we call them. I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=316.6s	316.6	 encourage Bailey to come to me by calling Bailey in a really enthusiastic, happy voice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=321.8s	321.8	 Just kind of let them get distracted for a minute. Bailey. I'm going to make sounds. Come here,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=327.9s	327.9	 Bailey. Yes. Good dog. Excellent job. Teaching your dog a basic recall like that is just giving them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=334.4s	334.4	 an excuse, a reason to want to come to you. Call Bessie in a happy voice. Bessie. Happier.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=340.0s	340.0	 Bessie. Yes. There you go. Good job. Really good. You're doing such a good job. I'm going to make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 it a little bit harder. Now I've got this treat. See how exciting you can be. Bessie. Come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=350.9s	350.9	 Look at that. I had a treat right there at her nose. You were able to get her attention off this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=355.2s	355.2	 amazing piece of meat and onto you. That's how you know that your training is really off to a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=359.7s	359.7	 good start. Since they're doing so well on coming to us, I'll tell you what. Let's call them to us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=364.3s	364.3	 when they get distracted a bit and then have them go into a sit. Come on. Now put her into a sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=372.7s	372.7	 Yes. Good job. Good patience there. Good timing. Everything was good about that. Come on. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=380.0s	380.0	 Sit. Hey. I mean, just at the beginning of this lesson, they were playing and being all rambunctious
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=384.8s	384.8	 and we couldn't get them to listen to us. And now we've got them doing all sorts of things just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=388.7s	388.7	 because we're giving them the one-on-one attention they need to really learn. How do you feel about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=393.2s	393.2	 today's lesson? Awesome. Click thumbs up for these Corgis, especially for Shelby over here. She did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=399.3s	399.3	 terrific. Make sure you're subscribed to my channel. Pick up a copy of my book and the audiobook,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=403.8s	403.8	 Dog Training Revolution. All the details will be in the description and change the way you buy dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=409.1s	409.1	 food at Pet Flow. I'll have the link in the description for you to set up automatic pet food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_45qu20e2EY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=482&pp=iAQB&t=413.8s	413.8	 delivery. You guys did a great job.
