https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today we're gonna go over how to make sure your dog looks forward to going to the vet with Louie click thumbs up for Louie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 Subscribe to my channel and pick up a copy of my book dog training revolution help us make more videos like this by joining our crowdfunding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=12.7s	12.7	 Community on patreon. I'll have a link in the description now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=16.1s	16.1	 Let's get to know Louie a little bit better from Allison. I'm Allison. This is Louie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 He's three months old and he's a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=24.4s	24.4	 I've taken Louie to the vet for his shots and he was scared the first time and I don't want him to be afraid of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=30.1s	30.1	 Every time he goes I want him to look forward to going to the vet Louie doesn't like being restrained very much Zack
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=35.8s	35.8	 Please help me to teach Louie to love going to the vet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=38.8s	38.8	 All right, Louie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=39.5s	39.5	 Your mom wants to help us make you a social butterfly who loves going to the vet aside from getting your dog comfortable with the vet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=45.5s	45.5	 One of the first things you'll have to work out is which food is best for your new dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=49.1s	49.1	 There are so many different brands out there and every dog is unique the fewer ingredients your dog food has the fewer things you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=55.6s	55.6	 To worry about your dog having a potential reaction to Louie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=58.3s	58.3	 You can't bite the camera for that reason you might want to consider a limited ingredient dog food like those from natural balance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=63.8s	63.8	 and they've got a ton of unique proteins like salmon duck venison bison and lamb and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=69.0s	69.0	 Grain free carbohydrates and they've got you covered if your dog likes canned food Louie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=73.0s	73.0	 You've got to wait for me to take it out of the can dry food and you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=75.9s	75.9	 They've got treats to have a jumping sticks. They're good for your hips and joints. I know you like that. Don't you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 It's like a single serve packet. Let's see what it looks like. Look at those sweet potatoes and fish doesn't that look good?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=86.3s	86.3	 Dental shoes and with natural balance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=88.2s	88.2	 You know that you can buy your food with confidence too because they don't let it out of their site until they've tested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=92.5s	92.5	 Every single batch and you can verify those results on their website, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=96.4s	96.4	 You can have this food shipped to you as often as you'd like from pet flow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=99.8s	99.8	 Just enter code zap 30 when you check out and you'll get $10 off your first three orders when you're trying to get your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=105.8s	105.8	 To be accepting of the vet or any other place where they tend to get nervous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=109.5s	109.5	 Preparation is key. No, that's what no your goal should be to get your dog to like these places from day one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=116.0s	116.0	 One quick tip that's almost sure to remove some anxiety is to thoroughly exercise your dog just before going to the vet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=122.4s	122.4	 Are you ready to learn to love the vet? Let's go. Come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=126.2s	126.2	 We're here at Southern Animal Foundation in New Orleans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=128.9s	128.9	 It's a good idea to just spend a few minutes in the lobby letting your dog smell around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=132.4s	132.4	 Offer him a few treats or even play with him too and do some basic training if he's into it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=137.1s	137.1	 Our goal is to make the vets office a normal fun place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=140.6s	140.6	 So don't wait until it's time to go to the vet to go to the vet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=144.2s	144.2	 Visit the vets office between appointments as often as possible. I'd say that Louie's having a pretty good time right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 This is exactly where we want him socialization is so important, especially for young dogs like Louie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=155.5s	155.5	 However, the lobby of a vets office is not the appropriate time or place to encourage a play session with other dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=161.2s	161.2	 Every time your dog goes to the vet they have to get weighed and my goal here is to see if I can get them on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=165.6s	165.6	 The scale voluntarily. Yes right there. He put two feet on there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=168.9s	168.9	 I love it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=169.6s	169.6	 So I'm just gonna go ahead and reward him for that and that's also one of the benefits about coming to the vet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=173.7s	173.7	 When you don't have a vet appointment assuming it's not too crowded
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=176.6s	176.6	 You have a little bit of time to work on things like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 The more you encourage your dog to do something on their own the more likely you are to have success. Look at that. Look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=185.1s	185.1	 I love it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=186.8s	186.8	 Good work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=188.5s	188.5	 Look at that all by himself right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=190.8s	190.8	 Encourage your dog to have lots of good interactions with the staff at the vets office as well so that they learn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=195.6s	195.6	 Hey, these people are just as fun as we are. All right, Louie. Come on. It's time for your exam. Let's go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=200.9s	200.9	 Come on. He's backing away a little so I want to make sure that I'm making it a very enjoyable process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=209.7s	209.7	 He's a little nervous of doors look at that that's okay right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=213.1s	213.1	 We're waiting for dr. Beckman to come in and join us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=215.5s	215.5	 So I thought I'd take this opportunity to get Louie comfortable with being on the table
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=219.7s	219.7	 Some dogs don't like being really high up or even on this cold metal surface might be unpleasant to them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=224.8s	224.8	 Taking advantage of the opportunity to get your dog comfortable with being in the exam room while you wait for the vet to come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=229.8s	229.8	 Can be really beneficial and right now the fact that he's taking these treats is a really good sign
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=235.2s	235.2	 If you were really nervous, he might not even be taking the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=238.3s	238.3	 But that's the thing we don't want these fears to become deep-rooted in the first place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 So we're trying to prevent them by saying hey, this is a fun place to be now if your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=247.2s	247.2	 We're nervous just simply because of the new environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 That's normal and acceptable just be low-key and do your best to reassure them and let them know it's gonna be okay in general
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=256.3s	256.3	 The more time your dog spends in a certain environment the less likely it is that they'll become nervous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=260.8s	260.8	 I'm just gonna get Louie really comfortable with being touched while on the exam table here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=264.9s	264.9	 They should prepare him for when dr. Beckman makes it in here so that he's not so thrown off by someone touching him like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=270.4s	270.4	 essentially we're teaching them being touched firmly while in this exam room and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=274.5s	274.5	 Getting treats is a fun thing and something he should look forward to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=278.2s	278.2	 Massage his ears, lift up his gums a little bit. Look at his teeth. Oh right there. He didn't like that so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=284.3s	284.3	 I'm gonna go a little bit easier. Yeah, that was nice right there. I kind of got real physical with his lip
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=289.5s	289.5	 I'm rewarding one treat after the other but I'm giving them such small treats that I'm not too worried about them filling up on them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=296.3s	296.3	 Dr. Beckman is awesome. She's gonna walk us through the exam process while keeping Louie comfortable and happy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=301.7s	301.7	 So what do you typically do to get dogs comfortable?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=304.5s	304.5	 Especially puppy before they've had any negative experiences
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=307.7s	307.7	 Definitely treats on the table a lot to love to start to get them comfortable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 Touch a little firmly I would imagine from time to time we do and usually puppies when they come in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=316.9s	316.9	 They've never had their ears messed with or their toes messed with or their mouths
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=320.4s	320.4	 So we like to while they're eating and enjoying themselves on the table start touching everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=324.3s	324.3	 So when you're doing the exam with a dog, you have to use a lot of instruments like the stethoscope
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=330.0s	330.0	 Correct. I mean and I would imagine some dogs might even be nervous by being approached with it first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=335.0s	335.0	 We let them see it and we let them smell it before I touch it to their body. Look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=339.3s	339.3	 So right there that was a good reaction if you don't mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=341.1s	341.1	 I'm just gonna treat him since he reacted so well there and I tend to move very slow when I approach him with it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=346.0s	346.0	 And I do it symmetrically on both sides so that he doesn't isolate the one feeling to one side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=350.3s	350.3	 And I mean his body language and everything seems to indicate that he's not particularly nervous right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=354.9s	354.9	 He's not trying to jump off the table or anything like that. Sometimes they're worried by the cord, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=359.2s	359.2	 Oh, he doesn't seem to be bothered by that at all and he did perfect now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=362.8s	362.8	 We're gonna get him familiar with the otoscope. Do dogs tend to get scared of this often? They're not scared of the object
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=368.4s	368.4	 They're more afraid of being restrained. So there is some required restraint here, correct? Minimal is better so that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=375.6s	375.6	 We're not too overpowering. He's doing great and I can follow their eyes around as he's moving around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=382.9s	382.9	 Would you mind if I give him a treat before he reacts? I get the one. I saw that he was doing so well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=387.3s	387.3	 I just wanted to make sure that I was able to get in there and be like, hey good things are gonna come when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=391.8s	391.8	 Behave like that. I feel his heartbeat increasing a little but he's doing really well here. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=397.2s	397.2	 And you can actually continue to give him treats while he's doing that. So what was that right there?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=401.7s	401.7	 Why do you think he yelped there? Probably just has never had the stimulus before. I'll give him a break and he can have some more treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=411.0s	411.0	 What about like for his teeth and stuff like that so go real slow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=415.8s	415.8	 There he goes. Just lift up the sides. Nice work. I'm just gonna give him a reward for it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=420.5s	420.5	 So we do ask the family at home to touch these areas look in the ears every day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=424.4s	424.4	 Touch the mouth open the mouth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=426.0s	426.0	 Make sure to touch all of the toes so that they get used to that stimulus at home too with the people that they love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=431.0s	431.0	 So that when they come in here, it's more familiar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=433.2s	433.2	 If your dog is already scared of going to the vet just follow the steps we went over in this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=437.4s	437.4	 But be extra patient as when a dog has already developed a fear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=440.4s	440.4	 It can take a little bit longer to get them over that fear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=443.0s	443.0	 Click thumbs up if you think Louie did an amazing job today subscribe to my channel and pick up a copy of my book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=448.6s	448.6	 Thank you to our crowd funders on patreon and thank you to the staff here at Southern Animal Foundation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=453.2s	453.2	 Make sure you feed your dog the very best to meet their needs with natural balance get your dog's food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFKw02u20Vg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=486&pp=iAQB&t=458.2s	458.2	 Automatically shipped to you from the pet flow all the links will be in the description below
