https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm gonna show you how to have your puppy healing in no time click thumbs up because BB8 the Alaskan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=6.4s	6.4	 Klee Kai is back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=7.6s	7.6	 And if you're new to my videos click subscribe right now to learn how to teach your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=11.6s	11.6	 Completely free if you want to get the most out of your training experience pick up a copy of my book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=16.0s	16.0	 And it really is the perfect companion to these training videos, and it's really affordable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=20.2s	20.2	 I'll have a link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=21.4s	21.4	 You're gonna get your dog food anyway order it once and be done with it pet flow is a completely new way to get your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=28.2s	28.2	 Food you just choose your dog's favorite brand of high quality food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=31.2s	31.2	 And how often you want it delivered once or twice a month is pretty ideal for most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=35.3s	35.3	 I'll have a special link in the coupon code in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=37.8s	37.8	 So what is heel exactly heel is where your dog stays glued to your side whether you're moving or staying completely still while remaining
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=45.6s	45.6	 Completely focused on you heel is great for a variety of different circumstances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=49.8s	49.8	 Maybe you want your dog close to you on a busy sidewalk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=52.3s	52.3	 Or you want to compete in certain types of dog competitions, or you just want to engage your dog's mind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=58.1s	58.1	 However our dogs shouldn't be required to be in the heel position on their normal walks because heel is a very particular way for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=64.6s	64.6	 Dog to walk and it requires a lot of focus on their part since our dogs like to take in the sights and sense of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=70.2s	70.2	 World we should let them do this often today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=72.6s	72.6	 I'm using some deli meat as my currency to teach you BB8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=76.1s	76.1	 The first thing you'll want to do when teaching heel is make sure that your dog really follows a lure very reliably look at him go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=82.5s	82.5	 See that he's really doing a good job there nice job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=86.3s	86.3	 I'm gonna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=87.5s	87.5	 Frequently reward him to let him know that I like the fact that he's following it good job, Mr.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=92.0s	92.0	 8 let me confirm that BB8 will look at me when I ask that's another real important part of heel look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=99.2s	99.2	 Yes, good job now a proper heel is where your dog stays on your left side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 But you could actually teach your dog to heel on your right or your left it really doesn't matter today though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=108.6s	108.6	 We're gonna keep BB8 on the left now. I want to get BB8 into position on my left side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=114.1s	114.1	 I'm gonna lure him behind like this just so I can really get him into that nice straight position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=119.9s	119.9	 Hopefully that didn't go so well. Let's try that again sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=124.8s	124.8	 I'm gonna reward that anyway because I like that he stayed still sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=131.0s	131.0	 I'll take it. Oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=134.1s	134.1	 That's a good one right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=135.8s	135.8	 I really like how he's lined up to my leg like this so I'm gonna give him a whole bunch of treats here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=140.5s	140.5	 Really small treats good job, and he backed away a little bit there. That's fine. He's in this position
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=146.0s	146.0	 I want to really reward him a whole bunch of tiny really amazing treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=150.9s	150.9	 It's really important to have that high rate of reinforcement when you're teaching your dog something like heel that takes so much focus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=157.8s	157.8	 I think we're ready to start moving. Let me get BB8 into the heel position come here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=162.5s	162.5	 Let me get his eyes on me remember. He knows look at me up here. Look at me come on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=167.6s	167.6	 Yes, look at that focus. I love it good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=171.3s	171.3	 Nice work right there. He's starting to get a little fast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=173.5s	173.5	 So I'm not gonna reward on that when bad habits start emerging early on in the training process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=178.3s	178.3	 It's a real fine line if your dog is really trying hard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=181.3s	181.3	 It might be a good idea to reward them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=182.7s	182.7	 But if they're on the wrong track a little too much then you have to withhold your rewards
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=187.1s	187.1	 It's one of those nuanced things in teaching dogs. He got a little too fast, so I'm gonna bring him back over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=192.6s	192.6	 Back into position. Oh wow, I'm like rewarding after every half step sometimes. Oh, that's a good-looking heel right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=199.7s	199.7	 So it's time to teach him what the word heel means remember when you're introducing a new word to your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=205.4s	205.4	 You want to be very deliberate heel yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=209.5s	209.5	 Give me heel. Yes. Oh good one. You can see there. He just like tiptoed with me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=216.1s	216.1	 I want to straighten him out see how he's kind of facing that way. That's not really a good heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=220.1s	220.1	 That's not very practical, so I'm gonna reset him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=224.6s	224.6	 That's certainly not heel not focused on going down the block
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=228.4s	228.4	 It's more important to get the motion and the fundamental solid before teaching your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=233.3s	233.3	 How to do a heel for an extended distance now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 We're going to attempt to teach BB8 to vary the speed at which he walks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=241.0s	241.0	 And this is one of the really fun things about teaching heel is that you can vary up your speeds and really refine that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=247.3s	247.3	 Communication to such intricate levels we're gonna attempt to make a right hand turn first over here come on look at that sit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=254.8s	254.8	 Oh my gosh. Are you believing that good? He's really getting the hang of this come on easy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=260.8s	260.8	 You can say fast as you turn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=263.5s	263.5	 Fast come on fast. Yeah, that's it fast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 Yes, I mean that eye contact is just unbelievable too. He's doing a really amazing job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=275.8s	275.8	 He's having a great time if your dog does tend to walk a little bit too fast and the right turn is your friend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=281.0s	281.0	 Because you can direct that speed into turning around you know so many people teach heel with a choke chain or a prong collar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=287.3s	287.3	 It's really completely unnecessary because your dog certainly isn't going to be this eager to work with you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=292.2s	292.2	 When they have to dread being corrected so physically and harshly good gonna make another right turn look at you go over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=299.1s	299.1	 Look at that little prance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=301.1s	301.1	 Yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=302.8s	302.8	 Good, I'm gonna come back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=305.4s	305.4	 Look at that guys. He is just knocking this out of the park
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=308.3s	308.3	 He's doing great in order to have a really reliable heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=311.4s	311.4	 You'll want to practice this in lots of situations and with heavy rewards for an extended period of time click thumbs up to tell BB8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=318.3s	318.3	 He did an awesome job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=319.7s	319.7	 Subscribe to my channel for more videos and grab a copy of the dog training revolution set up automatic pet food delivery to make your life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=326.1s	326.1	 Easier at pet flow. I'll have the link in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=329.1s	329.1	 BB8 that was so good for your first heel training session. You're incredible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP3l9ouRnl8&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=489&pp=iAQB&t=333.4s	333.4	 Thanks for watching and don't forget to tell all your friends about us too. Good job
