https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is sponsored by PetFlo and boy do we have a fun video today.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=4.2s	4.2	 You're going to learn how to teach your dog to fetch a beer or any other drink you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=8.6s	8.6	 from the fridge and bring it to you wherever you are. Click thumbs up, pick up a copy of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=12.7s	12.7	 book too to learn how to raise and train the best dog possible. Make sure you're subscribed to my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=16.8s	16.8	 channel. Now let's hear from Trevor and his incredible dog, Clyde. Hi, my name is Trevor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=21.3s	21.3	 Smith with the Doggie Dojo. I do YouTube videos on youtube.com slash the Doggie Dojo. Clyde is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=26.6s	26.6	 rescue dog. I got him about two years ago and he's an awesome dog. He got returned to the shelter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=31.9s	31.9	 six different times until I found him and now he's a wonderful companion for me. He's really goofy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=36.7s	36.7	 Clyde likes to learn new tricks and today we're going to show you one that's going to amaze you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=40.4s	40.4	 hopefully. Today it's a new environment for him so I'm a little concerned about how he's going to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=45.1s	45.1	 and I hope he doesn't drop a beer. Zach, I hope you're ready to party because it's time for Clyde to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=49.4s	49.4	 fetch us some beers. After you teach your dog to fetch a beer from the fridge, your life is never
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=54.2s	54.2	 going to be the same. I mean things which were once hard now are easy and if you're all about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=59.0s	59.0	 making your life as easy as possible, get your dog's food automatically shipped from Pet Flow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 Choose your dog's food. They've got all the brands and how often you want it to be delivered and to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=68.8s	68.8	 make sure you love it, they're going to give you $10 off your first three orders when you enter code
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=72.8s	72.8	 ZACH30. I'll have a link in the description. Let's do some training with Trevor and Clyde.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=77.0s	77.0	 Me and Clyde are so stoked to be here. We're super excited to start teaching him how to get beer out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=82.5s	82.5	 of this fridge. Who couldn't be excited about that right? And it's also the greatest dog trick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=86.3s	86.3	 ever. So this is a multi-part trick. We're going to have to teach Clyde how to open the refrigerator
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=90.3s	90.3	 by pulling a rope from the handle, then grabbing a beer off the shelf and bringing it to us wherever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=95.1s	95.1	 we are. You're going to have to have more energy than this Clyde. I know Clyde likes to play tug
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=99.2s	99.2	 of war but will he grab the rope on cue? Alright, go get the toy. Come on buddy. He's thinking about it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=108.2s	108.2	 It's like we're gonna have to keep trying here. But hey, don't despair. It's well worth the effort
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=113.0s	113.0	 if you can get your dog fetching beers from the fridge, believe me. There he goes. Takes a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=117.4s	117.4	 coax him but he's coming around. When we're reasonably certain that he's going to grab it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 we'll say something like grab it or get it or whatever you want to say. But playing tug of war
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=125.0s	125.0	 with a person, well that's really exciting for most dogs. We're having fun, they're feeding off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=129.2s	129.2	 our energy and there's a lot of interaction. However, teaching a dog to grab a tug toy while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=133.9s	133.9	 it's hanging from the fridge, well that's going to be completely different because it's not quite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=138.0s	138.0	 as exciting when something is just hanging there, not pulling back. We're going to use this toy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 because it's easier to tie to the fridge. And this being a different tug toy, we're going to have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=146.9s	146.9	 give a little effort here. We're going to shake it a little bit. We're going to grab it just like we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=149.6s	149.6	 were with a tug toy. Ask him to tug it. Come on, tug it. And again, keep tugging. When they start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=153.5s	153.5	 getting some... Oh yeah! We got it! Nice work, huh? He's like, what happened? You can meet some resistance on that with the seal of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=160.2s	160.2	 fridge. Yeah. So you have to really have that vigorous tug, huh? You can always open up the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=164.1s	164.1	 fridge a little bit to make it a little easier for the dog at first. Excellent tip. Clyde is doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=168.7s	168.7	 really well with opening the fridge. Now we have to get him interested in picking up this beer. It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=174.5s	174.5	 can be helpful to have the can inside a koozie like this so that the texture is more pleasant for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=178.4s	178.4	 dog to bite on too. It's just all about making it a toy right now. Move it back and forth, roll it a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=183.5s	183.5	 Yeah! Good shot! Get it, get it! Really important to praise him. Yeah, I like what you just did there. Playing like a tug toy with him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=189.7s	189.7	 Whoa, whoa! It's gonna bust! Do you think we can get him fetching it maybe by rolling it? Yeah, so get it. Yeah!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=197.2s	197.2	 Good boy! Clyde, Clyde, come back with the beer. This way, yes! Oh, this is so great! You are really doing a great job.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=204.6s	204.6	 I love where this is headed. I can tell. In this case, the reward is the tug. That's a fun thing to do,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=209.8s	209.8	 playing fetch with the beer. So our next step is to see if we can get Clyde to pick up the beer while
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=213.5s	213.5	 it's just sitting on the ground over there. Yeah, when it's sitting on the ground, it's not as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=216.5s	216.5	 exciting as when it's rolling. So it'll take a little effort, but I think he'll get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=220.5s	220.5	 Ready? Go get it! Oh, yes! Come on, buddy! Come on, come on! Yeah! High five, man, that's awesome!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=230.6s	230.6	 Now we want to see if we can get him to pick up the beer while it's on the shelf of the fridge.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=234.5s	234.5	 This is a bit of a hurdle here because he's got to stick his head inside a cold refrigerator. It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=238.3s	238.3	 kind of makes a little bit of noise in there too, so that might go him off a little bit. So the fridge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=242.2s	242.2	 is open. We have the beer on the shelf. Now let's see if we can get him interested in grabbing it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=246.8s	246.8	 Hey, what's this? Ready? Get it! Oh, look at that! He's going to choose that one. Oh, good boy. Yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=254.2s	254.2	 Clyde, come on! Bring that beer back here! And now he's bringing it to us. I think we got a trick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=261.0s	261.0	 here that we can show off now. And I think Clyde might have a drinking problem. Okay, all this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=265.2s	265.2	 great, but he also has to learn how to close the door too. In order to do that, if you get yourself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=269.1s	269.1	 a magnet and then you have them start to learn to touch it in your hand. Clyde, touch! Yes! Then you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=274.6s	274.6	 can take this magnet and put it on the fridge and he'll push it and then it'll actually push the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=279.2s	279.2	 fridge closed. I'll tell you what, Trevor, Clyde's doing so well. Let's see if he can put it all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=283.1s	283.1	 together while we're right here. Oh, he's doing good! Clyde, come here! Yes! Yay! Good boy, Clyde! You're so awesome!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=292.2s	292.2	 All right, now for the moment of truth. Will Clyde get us a beer when we're just hanging out on the couch?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=296.4s	296.4	 Give me a drink!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=305.2s	305.2	 Clyde, you're doing so good! Come on, come on! Yay!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=310.9s	310.9	 Now that I have a beer, you need a beer. Hey, Clyde, will you go get me a drink?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=314.3s	314.3	 Good boy! Awesome job! All right, cheers man! Cheers! Thank you so much to Trevor from the Doggie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=329.2s	329.2	 Dojo. Don't forget to check him out on YouTube. Make sure you subscribe to his channel and all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=333.1s	333.1	 of his links will be in the description of this video. And get your dog's food automatically shipped
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=337.1s	337.1	 from PetFlow too. Give a thumbs up to Clyde. Subscribe for more fun dog videos and if you like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZTwJ31kEHo&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=493&pp=iAQB&t=342.3s	342.3	 what you see here, support us on Patreon too. We'll see you guys in the next video. Nice work, man! Really good!
