https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 So this is an unplanned impromptu video. I don't normally post this. Don't worry, my normal videos will be coming back this Saturday.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=6.8s	6.8	 I've got a great video coming out with Stella the Italian Greyhound.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 But what I wanted to talk about today was this recent controversy from a dog's purpose.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=15.8s	15.8	 TMZ apparently released a video of a dog being trained on the set of a dog's purpose,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=22.2s	22.2	 where a dog was being forced to swim in this rushing water, this very elaborate prop,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=28.7s	28.7	 and clearly the dog did not want to do it, and was being made to do something they didn't want to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=33.5s	33.5	 As I watch the video, it's clear there's a lack of communication between the trainer and the dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=37.9s	37.9	 and the dog is clearly saying, look, I don't want to do this. I understand the desire and the will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=43.4s	43.4	 of the director or producer to try and get the shot for the production. Those involved with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=50.4s	50.4	 production typically don't have the know-how that a professional trainer has. In other words,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=55.4s	55.4	 they know what they need, and they're contracting out to some trainers to say, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=59.8s	59.8	 can you get a dog to do this thing that we need the dog to do? And since dog training is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=63.9s	63.9	 completely unregulated industry, you really just don't know what you're going to get. You don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=67.5s	67.5	 know if you're going to get a trainer who uses positive, modern, humane methods, or if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=71.4s	71.4	 going to get a trainer who's just like, yeah, I'll see what I can do. You've got to prepare
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=75.7s	75.7	 the dog and make sure that they are enthusiastically doing the thing you want them to do. Making a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=81.7s	81.7	 do something simply to entertain people when they're clearly uncomfortable should be off
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=86.5s	86.5	 limits. No shot for any motion picture or any TV show is worth stressing out a dog or potentially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=93.6s	93.6	 causing physical or mental harm to that dog. We see this all the time in television where a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=98.6s	98.6	 is intentionally set off for the sake of getting the dramatic shot so they can show extreme progress
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=103.8s	103.8	 in a 30-minute episode. And in my opinion, most of those dogs are simply just being pushed too far,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=109.3s	109.3	 and they're just reactive dogs that with anywhere between a couple of weeks and a few months worth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=113.6s	113.6	 of work will probably be just fine. Since I'm a dog trainer and since I'm making video content
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=119.2s	119.2	 about dog training, I'm always having to ask myself, is that ethical or is that not ethical?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=124.3s	124.3	 And anytime I think a dog is becoming overly stressed or has the likelihood of becoming overly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=130.3s	130.3	 stressed, that's when I say no more. Ideally, I keep the dog from getting stressed to begin with,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=135.5s	135.5	 but everything isn't perfect. But we have to make a good faith effort to make sure that we're always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=140.3s	140.3	 looking out for the well-being of our dogs no matter what. We know that using reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=144.9s	144.9	 training is far more effective for long-term results than using punishment-based training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=150.3s	150.3	 I mean, we see this through countless studies that I reference them in my book if you'd like to see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=154.5s	154.5	 The dog training industry is just one of those industries that's just largely way behind times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=161.8s	161.8	 It has not yet caught up. It has not yet filtered out that modern methods are not only effective,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=167.5s	167.5	 but more effective to resolving unwanted behaviors and also teaching dogs to do things like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=173.1s	173.1	 tricks for movies. Click thumbs up and tell me what you think in the comments below. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=176.6s	176.6	 do you think this trainer went too far? Do you think the dog training industry has a lot of growing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=181.3s	181.3	 up to do? Or do you think it's great the way it is? This was just a good opportunity to have this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lM3lNiklPxk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=496&pp=iAQB&t=185.6s	185.6	 discussion. Regular programming will resume Saturdays and we'll see you all next time.
