https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I've got the cutest French Bulldog today and we're gonna have a training session with him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=3.8s	3.8	 Who designs a face like that? Click thumbs up for French Bulldog puppies, subscribe to my channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=9.1s	9.1	 for the most comprehensive dog training videos on YouTube today, and pick up a copy of my book,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=13.8s	13.8	 Dog Training Revolution. My YouTube videos are featured throughout the entire book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=18.0s	18.0	 to make the whole training experience as easy as possible for you. This is Sawyer. Sawyer is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=23.5s	23.5	 four-month-old French Bulldog and we're gonna see how he's doing on his training so far. Today we'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=28.2s	28.2	 see what his energy is like, how well he knows his name. We're gonna play a really fun game
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=33.0s	33.0	 that reinforces come when called and we're gonna find out what kind of tricks he knows. So it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=37.1s	37.1	 should be a pretty action-packed training session. It is the 21st century and you do not need to deal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=42.3s	42.3	 with outdated inconveniences like traffic and lines just to get your dog food. Guys, you can easily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=48.1s	48.1	 save 20 plus hours per year by setting up automatic pet food delivery at Petfoyle. I mean that is a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=53.4s	53.4	 cross-country road trip and you can count on them having the right size bag and the right formula
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 you need when you need it. Something you just can't count on with the stores. Choose your food and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=64.3s	64.3	 how often you want it delivered. That's it. Also, by changing the way you buy dog food, you're helping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=69.5s	69.5	 to change the way people teach dogs. I'll have a special link and a coupon code in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=74.3s	74.3	 of this video that will give you 20% off your first automatic shipment. Let's do some training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=79.1s	79.1	 with Sawyer now. Every new dog I work with, I learn something completely different. I'm committed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=83.5s	83.5	 to working with lots of different dogs as every approach depends on a dog's personality, age,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=89.2s	89.2	 and experience. It's natural to assume that you should train a dog with their breed in mind,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=93.9s	93.9	 but this is a distant consideration from their individual personality. For example, French bulldogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=99.4s	99.4	 like Sawyer, they can be nervous sometimes. Some are excited, some like to do circus tricks, and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=104.4s	104.4	 some might just want to sleep all day. Let's find out what kind of dog Sawyer is. What kind of dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=109.4s	109.4	 are you? Huh? Let's first determine what Sawyer's energy level is. I wonder if he likes to play or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=114.9s	114.9	 if he's more mellow than that. That can often tell you a lot about a dog. Do they really want to play
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=118.9s	118.9	 tug of war and fetch? Or do they just want to kind of chill? I'd say he likes to play a lot. Look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=124.0s	124.0	 this. He's right into the game with tug of war, so he's not a mellow fellow. Now, I personally love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=129.2s	129.2	 a dog that plays tug of war like this, and dogs like this usually require a little bit more training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=133.5s	133.5	 and time, too. That's because they're just difficult to satisfy because they're just so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=137.8s	137.8	 interested in engaging the world and engaging stuff as evidenced by this tug toy. Oh, he's...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=144.3s	144.3	 Oh, boy! Dude, what is up? So this tells me he's a really energetic guy, and this means I should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=149.8s	149.8	 tailor my training approach for a more energetic dog. I'm really satisfied that Sawyer has a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=154.6s	154.6	 nice healthy play drive about him. Let's see how responsive he is to his name. Sawyer! Sawyer!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=161.6s	161.6	 Sawyer! Okay, so there we go. Fine. He responded there, so I'm going to give him a little treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=167.7s	167.7	 right here just to let him know I like that. But ideally, I'd rather not have to call his name three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=172.2s	172.2	 times in order to get his attention. I'm going to make a little bit of a sound to try and get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=175.5s	175.5	 Sawyer's attention on me rather than repeating his name over and over, and then I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=179.5s	179.5	 say his name so that he doesn't learn to tune out his name. Sawyer! Really good. Did you see that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=185.0s	185.0	 Wasn't that cool? All right. Sawyer! Good job, buddy. So he looks pretty responsive to his name.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=192.2s	192.2	 Sawyer! Yes! Good job! And right there, I avoided repeating his name over and over, gave him the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=198.3s	198.3	 chance to think about it, and then when he did respond to me, I gave him a treat just to let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=202.3s	202.3	 him know, hey, I like it when you respond to your name. Sawyer's responding to his name really well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=206.3s	206.3	 He's got really good energy. Now, I've heard from Sawyer's mom that he's not exactly great about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=211.6s	211.6	 coming when called, so we're going to do a fun game that will reinforce come when called that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=215.8s	215.8	 all of you can do with your dogs at home. Now, let's see if Sawyer will go and get a treat if I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=219.8s	219.8	 toss it over there like that. Sure enough, he does. Now, watch what happens right here after he eats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=225.8s	225.8	 the treat. Check this out. Yes! He looked right back at me, and he came to me. Do you see that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=231.2s	231.2	 I didn't even have to call him. Right there, he took the initiative to come to me because, in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=235.1s	235.1	 case, obviously, he wants more treats. However, if you can get your dog coming to you voluntarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=239.9s	239.9	 like that, it doesn't matter what you have to do to get him to do it because you want them coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=244.3s	244.3	 to you on their own accord, even if it's to get more treats in the beginning. Nothing wrong with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=248.6s	248.6	 that. That gets the habit established. So, I'm going to toss the treat, and now he's wandering,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=256.6s	256.6	 but I've got him on leash. Let's see if he thinks about it for a little bit. This is a really fun,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=261.2s	261.2	 easy game, and it's a really good exercise and patience.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=264.6s	264.6	 Yes! Good. See? Just wait it out like that. Don't be in a hurry to teach everything super quick all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=269.8s	269.8	 at one time. Sawyer, look at that. This time, I encouraged him to come back to me. He responded
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=275.0s	275.0	 to his name. Now, I've heard that this four-month-old French Bulldog puppy, Sawyer, knows a couple of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=280.0s	280.0	 cool tricks. Let's see how he looks. Sit. Good. Okay. Sits good. How about shaking your sh-?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=286.7s	286.7	 Look at that. Do you see that? That's so cute.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=290.2s	290.2	 He's going into his lie down. That's fine, too. Even though I asked for a shake and he lied down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=294.3s	294.3	 I'm going to be very liberal with rewards, especially at this age. The fact that he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=297.5s	297.5	 complying and trying means everything, so it's okay to reward for things like that in the beginning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=303.3s	303.3	 Sit. Shake. Good. Oh, that's fantastic. His eye contact is so good, guys. All right. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=311.2s	311.2	 how about a high five? Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=318.4s	318.4	 High five. Oh, yes. That's it. That was awesome. Oh, my gosh. He's only four months old. Can you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=326.1s	326.1	 believe it? We've been posting a lot more videos lately, and I want to add even more. You can help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=330.6s	330.6	 me do that by contributing as little as two bucks a month to our Patreon campaign. I'll have a link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=335.3s	335.3	 in the description. And for those of you who are already contributing, thank you so much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=340.2s	340.2	 Click thumbs up if you think Sawyer did a great job today. Subscribe to my channel. Make sure that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=344.6s	344.6	 you pick up a copy of my book, Dog Training Revolution, and set up automatic pet food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=349.0s	349.0	 delivery at Pet Flow. All the details will be in the description. Get that scarecrow. You get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PgMc75rv5U&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=503&pp=iAQB&t=354.4s	354.4	 That's a good boy.
