https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is sponsored by PepFlo. Now, you might think that your dog is deaf because they don't listen to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=4.9s	4.9	 But what do you do if you actually have a deaf dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 That's what we're gonna be talking about today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=9.5s	9.5	 Many of you have been asking me to work with smaller dogs and that's exactly what we're gonna do at another time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=15.6s	15.6	 Meet Theo. Theo is probably the largest dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=18.9s	18.9	 I have ever met in my entire life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=21.3s	21.3	 Click thumbs up for Theo because he's had to overcome so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=25.1s	25.1	 Subscribe to my channel for a more thorough understanding of how to teach your dog and pick up a copy of my book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=29.6s	29.6	 Dog Training Revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=31.0s	31.0	 I'll have a link in the description if you've got a giant dog like Theo or you have multiple pets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=35.5s	35.5	 You're probably going to the dog food store a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=38.6s	38.6	 Save yourself some time and effort by setting up automatic pet food delivery at PepFlo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=43.0s	43.0	 You can do it in two steps you choose your dog's food and how often you want it to arrive at your front door
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=48.7s	48.7	 I'm gonna have a special link and a coupon code in the description of this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=53.0s	53.0	 That'll give you 20% off of your first automatic shipment. Theo was rescued when he was just a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=58.3s	58.3	 He's got what's known as the double merle gene now this gene can cause a lot of problems in Great Danes and other breeds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=63.7s	63.7	 He also had to have his eye removed as a result of this gene. So now he's down to one eye
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=69.3s	69.3	 He can't hear but you know what?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=70.9s	70.9	 He's got a lot of love in his life. Perhaps the most difficult part of teaching any dogs establishing that basic communication
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=77.9s	77.9	 But with a deaf dog, you'll have to really prioritize that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=80.9s	80.9	 That's why we'll have to get really good at using our hands and overall body language to communicate with Theo today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=86.3s	86.3	 But how do you even get started as with any beginner dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=89.3s	89.3	 You'll want to have them on a leash and collar or harness so that you can keep their environment controlled until they understand you better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=94.9s	94.9	 So that's what we're gonna do with Theo of the utmost importance is first teaching a dog the word yes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=101.8s	101.8	 We must be in a position to let our dogs know what we like the moment we like it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 But of course telling him yes isn't gonna do much. So how are we gonna communicate that to him?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=110.5s	110.5	 That's what we're gonna work on right now. Let's start by teaching Theo that this means yes, so this is pretty basic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=116.8s	116.8	 I'm gonna show him this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=119.6s	119.6	 Looks at my thumb and then yes. Good job. Look at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=126.8s	126.8	 Great right there and you can see he looked up right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=129.2s	129.2	 I gave him the thumbs up and he seems to really be making the connection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=132.8s	132.8	 So I feel very confident that Theo understands that that means he's on the right track. But so what how are we gonna use that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=139.2s	139.2	 To our advantage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=139.8s	139.8	 Well, if you have any dog particularly a dog that can't hear you'll want to reliably get their attention on you or be able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=146.6s	146.6	 Get them to come to you when you call them. It looks like I've really got Theo's attention. He's responding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=151.0s	151.0	 Well to thumbs up. He understands that a treat is coming now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=154.8s	154.8	 I'm gonna kind of let him lose interest from it. Just let him think we're done
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=158.1s	158.1	 I have a hunch that if I tap him, he might look up at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=162.3s	162.3	 Do you see that right there I want to let him know that I love that he gave me his attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=166.5s	166.5	 Good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=167.7s	167.7	 Nice work you so now I want to teach him that this means come to me since Theo likes the treats that I'm using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=174.6s	174.6	 It's reasonable to assume that he'll take a step towards me if I walk a step or two away
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=178.7s	178.7	 And since I know that he's likely to step towards me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=181.4s	181.4	 I can introduce a hand signal that tells him what he's doing now if I do this enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 He'll eventually learn that this hand signal means come to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=191.2s	191.2	 Look at that. He took one step to me. I love it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=193.9s	193.9	 So now I'm able to get his attention on me letting him know that I like that he's paying attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=198.2s	198.2	 I'm gonna use this hand signal to get him to take a step to me. Good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=203.3s	203.3	 Yes, look at that and he did a really good job responding to the hand signal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=207.7s	207.7	 So the idea here is over time you'll be able to use that hand signal and not have to treat every time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=212.7s	212.7	 But if you consistently reward while using the hand signal of come when called your dog is more likely to do what you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=218.9s	218.9	 Teaching a dog with any type of disability can take a little bit of effort
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=222.2s	222.2	 Disability can take a little bit of extra time the extra patient put in that consistency and you will get there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=228.3s	228.3	 I think he's doing a great job click thumbs up if you think so, too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=231.4s	231.4	 Subscribe to my channel so you see all my future dog training videos and pick up a copy of my book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=235.5s	235.5	 Hey, don't forget to set up automatic pet food delivery at pet flow. All those links will be in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=240.8s	240.8	 You did a great job today, sir
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=243.5s	243.5	 Feel rocked in this video special. Thanks to our patrons on patreon who made a huge contribution towards these videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=249.6s	249.6	 I hope some of you will consider joining our patreon community and check out this playlist on teaching your dog or your puppy all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eglc_R81Zw&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=508&pp=iAQB&t=257.1s	257.1	 Of the basics in order. It's completely free and extremely thorough. I can't wait to see you in the next video
