https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to show you how to get your puppy comfortable with the world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=3.4s	3.4	 Meet Leia. She's a four month old puppy and she's a little nervous around new people and new situations.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=9.1s	9.1	 Click thumbs up if you think she's super cute and subscribe to my channel if you want to learn more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=14.2s	14.2	 about raising your dog in the best way possible. Also pick up a copy of my new book Dog Training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=19.9s	19.9	 Revolution. I reference my videos throughout the entire book so that you have a very thorough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=24.9s	24.9	 understanding of how to teach your dog. Puppies like Leia need really good food so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=29.6s	29.6	 do your research when picking out your dog's food and have that conversation with your vet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=34.2s	34.2	 to make sure that you're feeding your dog the best food possible. Then check out Pet Flow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=39.3s	39.3	 Pet Flow makes it so easy to get your dog's food. Pick out your favorite brand of food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=43.8s	43.8	 and how often you want it to be delivered to your house. Plus by changing the way you buy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=48.2s	48.2	 dog food you're helping us change the way people teach dogs. I'm going to have a link and a special
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=53.3s	53.3	 coupon code in the description that will give you 20% off of your first automatic shipment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=58.2s	58.2	 When you prioritize the relationship between you and your dog the training part is easy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=62.5s	62.5	 Your relationship should be based on love, trust, and respect. Particularly if you have a puppy or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=67.3s	67.3	 dog who's a little bit apprehensive in new situations you'll want to be extra understanding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=71.7s	71.7	 and go out of your way to get them comfortable in new situations. Not all dogs are the same.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=76.5s	76.5	 Dogs all have unique individual personalities. Some will love being in new situations most of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 the time. Others will be completely terrified and most will fall somewhere in between. First
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=87.0s	87.0	 things first in order to get your dog comfortable around new people in new situations you'll want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 to get them really comfortable with you first and that all starts with building a strong bond.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=99.0s	99.0	 Something's throwing her off a little bit obviously though. I know of nothing that builds a bond faster
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=103.9s	103.9	 than playing with a dog so I'd recommend that you try playing a game of tug of war with your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=108.8s	108.8	 Even a game of chase in the backyard if you have to. Come on. I think she sees herself on the monitor.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=117.4s	117.4	 Let's see. Let's go see what it is. What is that? What is it? What's this? What's this? What's that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=130.8s	130.8	 There you go. Good. Good job. Just being playful sometimes can get a dog a lot more interested in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=135.5s	135.5	 you. It's amazing how playing with a dog can really get them to open up and just be a new dog. Of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=141.2s	141.2	 course you're not always going to be able to get your dog in play mode and some dogs just aren't as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=145.8s	145.8	 into playing as other dogs. If you do have a young puppy in particular say under one year of age it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=151.3s	151.3	 important to really socialize them around a lot of different people and different situations. Women,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=156.5s	156.5	 men, people wearing cowboy hats and sunglasses, people who are dressed funny, black people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=161.3s	161.3	 white people, fat people, skinny people. Now we're going to take Leia out into the wild and see how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 she does in the real world and give her some life experience. Take your dog wherever you can that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=171.4s	171.4	 dog friendly of course. Today we're at a local garden center to make sure they have their appropriate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=175.3s	175.3	 vaccinations before setting them down in public places. Every person place or experience represents
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=180.3s	180.3	 a new opportunity to create a good association with something new but be proactive here because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=186.2s	186.2	 you could very easily accidentally create a bad association without even meaning to. Always bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=191.8s	191.8	 really good treats with you too so that you can more easily communicate to your dog. Hey look you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=196.6s	196.6	 get awesome things when you're in new places like this. Say for example there was some loud sound in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=201.7s	201.7	 the background that was throwing Leia off right now. I would really want to go out of my way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=206.5s	206.5	 try to get her extra comfortable with that. Now if it were too overbearing or she were too nervous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=211.5s	211.5	 or even too excited to take treats then I might consider removing her from the environment completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=216.4s	216.4	 and trying again at some point in the future. Let people pet your dog even hold them. Many dogs for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=221.2s	221.2	 example are pretty nervous of men. Ask people you know even friendly strangers to hold your dog and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=226.3s	226.3	 give them a treat and a little bit of authentic attention. We may never get her back now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=232.4s	232.4	 Oh oh see that right there there's a dog up for adoption over here who's barking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=238.3s	238.3	 It's making her a little nervous so I don't want to throw her in the deep end. I'm going to kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=241.4s	241.4	 back up here and just give her a little bit of space so I don't create that bad association
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=246.6s	246.6	 accidentally. Since Leia was a little nervous when the dog started barking I'm going to still pass
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=251.8s	251.8	 through but I'm going to hold her this time just to get her a little bit more comfortable. See how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=255.2s	255.2	 she won't take the treat now because dogs are smart. They remember hey a second ago when I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=259.5s	259.5	 walked here a dog started barking I had no idea what that was about. So that's usually a sign that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=263.7s	263.7	 a dog is either really excited or a little bit uncomfortable just depending on the situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=268.2s	268.2	 If they won't take the treat just do your best to get them comfortable. I'm going to show her the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=272.2s	272.2	 chickens over here. See those chickens? Look at those chickens. Do you want this? Well now she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=278.6s	278.6	 starting to take a treat. That's one way to measure whether or not your dog is comfortable whether or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=282.3s	282.3	 not they'll take a treat in a certain situation. Of course there's other things you need to consider
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=286.8s	286.8	 but that's just one variable. Now I'm going to see if I can put her back down and continue to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=290.6s	290.6	 walk and see how well she does. Look you can see she's looking a little bit more confident now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=296.8s	296.8	 That's what I like to see. Click thumbs up if you enjoyed today's video. Make sure you're subscribed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=301.2s	301.2	 I've got lots of great videos coming. Pick up a copy of my book and check us out on Facebook and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=306.2s	306.2	 Instagram to set up automatic pet food delivery at PetFlow too. See you guys next time. Thanks so much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=311.8s	311.8	 to our Patreon supporters. Without you these videos would not be the same. If you've gotten a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dC4b1_N3XkA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=514&pp=iAQB&t=316.6s	316.6	 here are some other great videos to check out. I can't wait to see you guys next time.
