https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to show you how to size up a new dog in minutes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=8.0s	8.0	 Today's video is sponsored by PepFlo. When you're considering bringing a new dog into your life,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=12.3s	12.3	 you'll probably want to know what you're getting into. Today I'm going to show you a few tests that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 you can do to find a dog that's best for you. Click thumbs up for getting homeless dogs home,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=21.5s	21.5	 subscribe to my channel, and pick up a copy of my book Dog Training Revolution. My YouTube videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=26.9s	26.9	 are featured throughout the entire thing to make everything as easy as possible. Follow me on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=31.8s	31.8	 Instagram and Facebook too. One thing you can do right now to help homeless animals is simply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=37.5s	37.5	 change the way you buy dog food. For every box shipped, PepFlo will donate a bowl of food to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=42.6s	42.6	 a pet in need. PepFlo's innovative system makes your life easier. They let you choose your brand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=48.0s	48.0	 of dog food and how often you want it to be delivered. I have my food shipped every two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 weeks for example. By giving your business to PepFlo, you're making your life easier,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=56.5s	56.5	 helping homeless dogs, and supporting my videos. Thank you. I'll have a link and a coupon code in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=62.0s	62.0	 the description that'll give you 20% off of your first auto ship order. In a second, we're going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=67.0s	67.0	 to head to our local shelter, check out a few dogs, and see what we can learn about them. Because of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=71.1s	71.1	 the recent flooding here in southern Louisiana, many dogs have found themselves homeless, and we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=75.8s	75.8	 want to get those dogs on to a happy life as soon as possible. A key part of getting these dogs into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 a better situation is first understanding their personality and what type of home is best for them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=87.3s	87.3	 I'm going to evaluate a few dogs and offer my take on what I think they'll need out of their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=91.3s	91.3	 forever home. I'll be looking for things like energy level, the dog's willingness to engage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=95.5s	95.5	 in training, and more today. How you doing, Brittany? Hi, I'm good. How has the flooding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=104.7s	104.7	 really impacted the local shelter here? We've had a lot of dogs come in from other animal shelters.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=109.2s	109.2	 They've been flooded or they've been impacted themselves. Over 40,000 homes have been impacted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=113.8s	113.8	 by this last I heard. It's really best for the family and the dog if their needs and wants are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=119.0s	119.0	 compatible. You want to get them out quickly, but you also want to get them out to the right family.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 Right. We do need some help writing some bios because we're not dog trainers or dog professionals,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=128.7s	128.7	 so we try our best, but sometimes it's hard to match those families up with the right dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=132.6s	132.6	 It's not about what the dog knows today, it's about what they can learn tomorrow. Let's bring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=136.1s	136.1	 out our first dog. What do you say? The first thing I like to do when I meet any dog is just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=139.5s	139.5	 get them at ease immediately. Let them smell me, let them get comfortable. I'm just going to let
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=143.6s	143.6	 them check out the environment, check me out, get comfortable. He looks at ease. What do we know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=148.2s	148.2	 about Blue? He was surrendered to the shelter probably about three weeks ago. He's just a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=153.9s	153.9	 sweet dog. We don't know a lot more about him though. Is he typically reserved like this in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=157.4s	157.4	 your experience? It depends. Sometimes he gets really excited and he can't control himself,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=162.2s	162.2	 but other times he's like this. That's very typical of what I like to call a level two dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=166.9s	166.9	 I typically rank dogs level one, two, or three based on energy level because energy level
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=171.8s	171.8	 is one of the fastest ways to size up a dog and determine if they're going to be right for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=175.9s	175.9	 certain situation. Level two dogs are awesome for most people who really want to be engaged
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=180.9s	180.9	 with training but don't want a dog that is super high maintenance. One of the first things I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=185.1s	185.1	 to assess for is a dog's willingness to look at me in the eyes. If I can get a dog's eyes on me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=190.0s	190.0	 that tells me I'm in a better position to communicate with them. Traditional training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=193.8s	193.8	 focuses on really popping the leash or kind of jerking the leash subtly to get a dog to pay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=198.6s	198.6	 attention, but if you can get a dog's eyes on you voluntarily, it's so much more authentic,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=202.6s	202.6	 gives you a lot better results down the road. He's got great eye contact. His demeanor is good. He
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=207.2s	207.2	 follows a lure. He follows it a little bit here. He goes back and forth. That just means it'll be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=211.4s	211.4	 easier to guide him with a treat. Another good indicator as to a dog's teachability is their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=215.9s	215.9	 play drive. Are they willing to engage promptly in a game of tug of war or do they do it off and on?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=221.3s	221.3	 He's really lighting up and getting happy by this tug toy. Even if he wasn't into the toy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=225.7s	225.7	 that would be fine too. When dogs play with a person, that's so much more rewarding than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=231.0s	231.0	 say just playing with another dog, but there's something about playing with people that seems to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=235.3s	235.3	 really satisfy dogs in a way that nothing else does. Tug of war can be one of the most powerful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=239.9s	239.9	 rewards or currencies for a dog that there is. Now if the dog really is overly enthusiastic about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=245.4s	245.4	 tug, that also may be an indicator that they're going to be particularly high maintenance too,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=249.1s	249.1	 because they'll have a lot of energy. Blue strikes me as a middle-of-the-road dog who would do well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=253.1s	253.1	 in most families who really want to have a dog and spend a lot of time with the dog and really do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=257.4s	257.4	 some basic training with him. He's probably not a couch potato, but he's not necessarily a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=261.8s	261.8	 high-energy duck diving agility dog either. I know you mentioned that he seemed good for most homes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=267.4s	267.4	 What do you think about a home with kids? I see nothing here that would lead me to believe that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 he wouldn't do well with kids, but obviously any family should be careful with any dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=275.1s	275.1	 particularly if they have young children. But if you had say a 10 to 15 year old kid in the house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=279.8s	279.8	 who was really interested in engaging a dog and really interested in teaching, I have a hunch he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=284.6s	284.6	 would do amazing with them. You want to bring out our next dog? Sure. This is Missy. She was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=288.2s	288.2	 surrendered to the shelter not too long ago. She has a bite history with a young child in her house.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=293.0s	293.0	 Oh, how unfortunate. And we don't know the details really surrounding that? No. Oftentimes in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=298.6s	298.6	 particular situation, it's just because a child was a bit overbearing, particularly young children
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=304.0s	304.0	 if they're not really introduced properly, you can encounter that. Sit. Look at me. Yes. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=311.8s	311.8	 whining you hear, a little bit of anxiety. Does she, in your experience with her, have you noticed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=315.8s	315.8	 that she gets a little anxious like that a lot? Yes, and I noticed she's like, it seems that she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=319.3s	319.3	 a little bit shy at times. Ah, okay. She's demonstrating a lot of body language here that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=324.1s	324.1	 indicates she's not extremely comfortable. I want to see if she'll play with the tug toy. And right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=328.8s	328.8	 now, my guess is she's a little anxious, not totally in play mode right now. She's more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=333.5s	333.5	 interested in what the heck's going on around here. It doesn't appear that she's very interested in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=337.3s	337.3	 toys. What other exercises would you recommend? Well, she may or may not be interested in toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=341.7s	341.7	 because she's nervous right now is not necessarily an indicator that she doesn't like to play.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=345.5s	345.5	 However, if that is the case, you know, walking is always a good way to exercise the dog because she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=351.3s	351.3	 doesn't appear like overly energetic either. It's okay, Angel. I'm going to break out some treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=355.9s	355.9	 here again, just to see if I can let her know that great things happen when she's in places like this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=361.0s	361.0	 So the priority is getting them comfortable, not getting them to sit, stay or lie down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=364.6s	364.6	 You can see she does follow the lure. Even in this anxious mindset, she's still following the lure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=369.0s	369.0	 Good. Let's see if we can get her in. Good job. Nice work. And let's put her into a down. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=377.8s	377.8	 What an angel you are. That's perfect. And yes, look at me. Good girl. Good eye contact. When you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=385.8s	385.8	 give her your attention, her anxiety seems to subside a lot. That's the thing about anxious dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=390.5s	390.5	 They need a lot of attention. That's why a more seasoned family who's got some experience with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=395.0s	395.0	 dogs would probably be more ideal for her. You can see that her anxiety level has come down even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=399.2s	399.2	 just in the few minutes we've had her out here, which is a good sign. It is. But I anticipate that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=404.2s	404.2	 she's going to be an anxious dog in a lot of situations for a little bit of time to come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=407.4s	407.4	 Why don't you go grab us another dog? What's his name? His name is Mason. And look at that tail
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=411.4s	411.4	 wagon. You guys have so many people type dogs here, I would imagine. Yeah. I have a great video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=415.3s	415.3	 coming out on the truth about pit bulls in the near future. So you guys will want to be tuned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=420.2s	420.2	 into that. How did Mason come into the shelter? Mason came from a backyard breeder that had too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=424.4s	424.4	 many dogs. Look how eagerly he follows this Lord. I'd like to see how willing he is to look at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=430.2s	430.2	 in my eyes. Yes. Nice job, Mason. You're doing great. Yes. Really good. So he, I mean, he is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=437.0s	437.0	 like on it. The thing about energetic dogs like this, it's all or nothing. Either you put in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=440.8s	440.8	 time with them and you have an amazing dog or you don't and you have issues with the dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=445.4s	445.4	 It's because dogs like this are really tough to teach if you don't get their energy out on a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=448.7s	448.7	 regular basis. I'd like to see how eager he is to play now. As suspected, he is all about it. He's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=453.6s	453.6	 right into the game of tug of war and he's right into the game of tug of war after eating turkey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=457.6s	457.6	 which is really interesting. That's what I like to call dual currency. If a dog will work for treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=463.1s	463.1	 and work for play in the same exact training session, that indicates a very trainable dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=468.4s	468.4	 most of the time. Interesting. Yeah, because the reason for that is when dogs are like eating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=473.1s	473.1	 something really good, it kind of quells their desire to bite and play. That gives you a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=477.6s	477.6	 tools if you're training a dog. He's cute. And right here, you hear that growling, you see him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=482.7s	482.7	 hitting that play ball. That's a play growling. That's a dog that's having a good time. Okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=487.0s	487.0	 Now we're going to teach him to let go by just making it boring. And then when he lets go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=490.6s	490.6	 I'm going to give it right back to him. When you let go, you get to play. When you don't,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=494.2s	494.2	 the game gets boring. It's that simple. Yes. Good. Do you see that? I saw that. See,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=499.4s	499.4	 I let down for just a second. Let go is one of those things that frustrates so many people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=503.3s	503.3	 but it's one of the easiest things to teach. Another thing you can do if a dog is really this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=507.3s	507.3	 into it, you can even use a treat right here to distract them. Yes. Good job. And while with some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=512.4s	512.4	 dogs that may quell their desire to play tug of war with other dogs who are willing to engage in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=517.1s	517.1	 play and treats in the same training session, you can probably get right back into the game. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=522.3s	522.3	 There it is. Look at that just immediately. So for some dogs, that's a good idea for other dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=527.1s	527.1	 not so much. It looks like he doesn't mind being held at all. He's really good about being touched.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=531.8s	531.8	 Just a friendly guy overall who wants to play. He's got incredible athleticism and endurance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=537.8s	537.8	 And if he ends up in a family that isn't willing to exercise him 30 minutes to an hour a day,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=542.3s	542.3	 five days a week, they're probably going to experience a lot of problems with him. But if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=545.8s	545.8	 they do, this dog can probably learn just about anything. We're going to bring out our next dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=549.9s	549.9	 now. And who's this? This is Twinkie. Hello Twinkie. I don't even need treats to get her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=555.1s	555.1	 comfortable. She is a displaced dog from all the flooding. She came in with two of her puppies.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=559.7s	559.7	 You look like a chihuahua with a beard. She definitely is willing to follow that lure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=564.2s	564.2	 I just feel like she'd be an amazing trick dog. Look at that. Look how eagerly she follows that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=569.0s	569.0	 Oh gosh, who cares what you can do. It's important to you when you are teaching a dog to look at you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=573.0s	573.0	 especially if you don't know them very well, to exercise some caution. You don't just want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=576.6s	576.6	 get up in their face and say, Hey, look at me. But you know, if they're happy like this and they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=580.1s	580.1	 seem to be pretty obedient, I wouldn't quite call you obedient. Then it's probably okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=586.3s	586.3	 Dog. I'm going to discourage the jumping. I keep trying to lure her into a sit and she's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=590.3s	590.3	 immediately taken to that. She's like, does this give me the treat if I backed up? I like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=595.0s	595.0	 That's better than jumping. So I'm going to reward it. I mean, it's about rewarding the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=598.0s	598.0	 behaviors you like rather than correcting behaviors you don't like. Oh, there it is right there. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=603.8s	603.8	 she automatically sat some dogs will do that too. That's called capturing a behavior. If a dog just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=608.7s	608.7	 automatically offers yes, right there, you can see she's starting to learn. She's like, if I do this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=612.7s	612.7	 will I get it? We're going to assess for play drive now. Yes. Yeah, you have one. Of course we do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=621.3s	621.3	 So while she's not necessarily interested in tug of war, she is kind of interested in playing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=625.7s	625.7	 and running around. You can tell she's in a playful mood. And that's really a good sign of a dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=629.8s	629.8	 likes to engage people and engage in training. All the dogs we met today would make great pets
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=634.1s	634.1	 for the right families. And that's really the most important thing. Just make sure you take your time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=638.0s	638.0	 and be patient and put some thought into it when you're choosing your new pet. Sometimes it takes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=642.6s	642.6	 spending a few days with a dog to see if they're right for you or even longer. Most shelters will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=646.2s	646.2	 be just fine with you fostering a dog. If you want to take your time. The shelters here in southern
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=650.2s	650.2	 Louisiana have been experiencing so many homeless dogs coming in lately. If you want to help with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=654.2s	654.2	 donation, I'm going to have a link in the description, click thumbs up for the dogs in today's video,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=659.1s	659.1	 share this video too so that we can continue to increase awareness for homeless dogs everywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=663.8s	663.8	 Subscribe to my channel. And if you're getting a new dog, definitely pick up a copy of my book.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=667.4s	667.4	 It'll show you everything you need to know by changing the way you buy dog food. You're helping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=671.4s	671.4	 homeless animals too. I'll have pet flows information in the description. A special thank
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=675.4s	675.4	 you to all of the volunteers who spend their free time working with these dogs in need everywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=680.0s	680.0	 in the world. You are truly special people. We'll see you guys in the next video. If you're getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=684.5s	684.5	 a new dog, check out three things to teach your new puppy. Maybe your dog barks or lunges or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=689.4s	689.4	 tunes you out when you're on a walk. If so, see get your reactive dog under control. Or if you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=694.7s	694.7	 a puppy biter, check out my lesson on resolving puppy biting. I hope you guys are enjoying the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WgALg1jajY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=518&pp=iAQB&t=699.1s	699.1	 videos and I can't wait to see you next time.
