https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to cover some of my favorite things to teach your new puppy on day one.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=9.2s	9.2	 Today's video is sponsored by Pet Flow. When you have a new dog, you can get started with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=13.3s	13.3	 teaching them lots of interesting concepts almost immediately. Click thumbs up for the legendary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=19.2s	19.2	 BB8. Also make sure you're subscribed to my channel so that you see all my future videos too. And if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=24.9s	24.9	 you want to get the most out of my videos, pick up a copy of my best-selling book, Dog Training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=28.4s	28.4	 Revolution. It's perfect if you're thinking about getting a dog or want to get serious about having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=33.0s	33.0	 the best dog possible. If you want your very own signed copy, check out my Patreon campaign for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=37.5s	37.5	 details. Link in the description. If you've gotten a new dog, you'll obviously need to make sure they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=41.4s	41.4	 have their dog food. Now I'll let you in on a little secret. The most convenient way to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=46.2s	46.2	 that your dog's food is always there when you need it is to set up automatic pet food delivery
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=51.4s	51.4	 at petflow.com slash Zach George. All you need to do is select a really good food for your new dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=57.7s	57.7	 and how often you want it shipped to your house. It really is that simple and you can forget about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=62.6s	62.6	 ever waiting in traffic again. Well, at least for your dog food anyway. I'll have a special link and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=68.0s	68.0	 a coupon code in the description of this video. Plus remember by changing the way you buy dog food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=73.3s	73.3	 you're helping us change the way people teach dogs. Now let's cover some of my favorite things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=78.1s	78.1	 to teach your new puppy on their first day. Since basic communication is lacking with most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=87.6s	87.6	 new dogs, we have to come up with other ways to keep their attention, especially in that first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=91.7s	91.7	 few months of training. That's what I like to call the communication building phase, which usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=95.8s	95.8	 lasts a few months. Treats are a great way to do that. I'm using tiny pieces of real chicken.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=101.3s	101.3	 Lure training is where you encourage your dog to be in a particular physical position by kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=106.2s	106.2	 coaxing them with a treat. You can see that right now BB8 is in a lie down position. Well, I want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=111.5s	111.5	 to encourage him to come up. So I'm going to use his nose right here, right here. I'm going to use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=116.6s	116.6	 it like a magnet up to kind of encourage him to come up. Did you see that? And let's see if we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=121.4s	121.4	 get them to spin around in a circle. Wow. That's pretty awesome. How about sit, lie down and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=129.9s	129.9	 got to be kidding me. Look at that roll over first attempt guys. Not even kidding. I honestly have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=135.4s	135.4	 never worked with him on any of this stuff. So he's doing a great job. That's called roll over. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=140.5s	140.5	 you can see he's really doing well. There is a lot of power in lure training, especially at first.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=146.2s	146.2	 It's not just about the treat either. Always inject your training with lots of enthusiasm,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=150.0s	150.0	 positivity and encouragement when you're working with your dog. That'll go a long way to teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=153.5s	153.5	 them to do lots of new cool things. Teaching your dog to come to you when you call them is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=157.8s	157.8	 absolutely vital and you can't practice this too much. Always make sure that you have a leash on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=162.6s	162.6	 your dog whenever teaching them anything in the first year. You want to really maintain control
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=167.0s	167.0	 of the environment. A good rule of thumb when you're teaching your dog to come to you is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=171.2s	171.2	 always call them in a really encouraging, optimistic, happy voice. Do what you can to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=175.8s	175.8	 be real exciting to make sure your dog wants to come to you. BB8, come here, come here. Good boy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=180.6s	180.6	 You did so well. The other thing you've got to remember is to go out of your way to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=185.4s	185.4	 that they understand that coming to you results in something amazing. And for dogs like BB8,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=190.9s	190.9	 there are a few things that are more desirable than a piece of real chicken. At first, keep your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=195.4s	195.4	 distances short with your dog. Don't ask them to come to you from a massive range. The closer you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=199.8s	199.8	 are to your dog, the more likely they are to listen to you in beginner training. Come on,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=204.0s	204.0	 let's go. Running away from them is also a great way to encourage them to come to you because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=209.0s	209.0	 instinctively most dogs really like to chase. You're doing a terrific job. If possible, try and get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=214.9s	214.9	 down to your dog's level and encourage them with your eyes to come to you. That always helps. BB8,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=220.0s	220.0	 come on, come here, come on. Oh, right there. It's a good thing we have a leash on. See, there we go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=225.6s	225.6	 BB8, come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=232.2s	232.2	 Come on, there we go. Good job. So right there, we work through a real life distraction. So that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=237.1s	237.1	 pretty awesome. You don't always have to use food as your primary currency when teaching your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=241.4s	241.4	 to come to you either. Consider using toys too. Sometimes it can be really frustrating if your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=246.2s	246.2	 dog doesn't come to you immediately. And you might be tempted to use a really firm or even angry voice,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=251.5s	251.5	 but don't resort to doing this. Keep it optimistic for your dog and enjoyable. If you go out of your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=256.5s	256.5	 way to reach deep during these moments, you'll get a lot more out of your training and your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=260.3s	260.3	 will appreciate you a lot more. Perhaps one of the most important skills any dog needs to know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=266.0s	266.0	 is how to stay when you ask them to. This is a potentially life-saving skill. Let's go over what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=271.1s	271.1	 a beginner stay training session should look like. I think we'll focus on stay for a period of time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=276.3s	276.3	 and stay while I walk away. A key thing to remember when teaching your dog to stay is to build it in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=281.3s	281.3	 small little bits. Let me show you what I mean. Stay. Yes. That was like a half second stay. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=287.3s	287.3	 where we start. I'm also being really purposeful with my hand signal here so I can really communicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=292.5s	292.5	 what this word means. Stay. Yes. Since he stayed, I'm going to reward him and I'm going to give him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=299.3s	299.3	 a good reward there to let him know how much I really like that he's staying. Okay, good. Come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=304.9s	304.9	 here. I'm letting him know that his stay is over. Now, stay. One, two, three, four. Oh boy, I pushed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=312.4s	312.4	 him to failure. Did you see that? He got distracted by these lovely people walking behind us. So since
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=317.4s	317.4	 he broke, stay there. You know what? I messed up. I pushed him to failure and I want to make sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=321.7s	321.7	 that doesn't happen two times in a row. So I'm going to take a step back on my training right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=325.8s	325.8	 and try and set him up for success on this next attempt. So over here. Good. Sit. Stay. Yes. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=333.6s	333.6	 wanted to make that one extra easy for him and he did really well. My goal here is to see if I can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=338.3s	338.3	 work up to a good four, maybe five second stay. So let me get his attention. Good. Stay. One, two, three,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=346.9s	346.9	 four, five. Yes. Good. You might have noticed that he went into a down there. That's totally fine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=353.2s	353.2	 because he's not up running around everywhere. He's still kind of staying in this general area.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=357.4s	357.4	 So I'm cool with that, especially at first. Now let's see if we can get him to stay while I walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=361.8s	361.8	 away. This is going to be a little bit more challenging though, especially in this distracting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=365.4s	365.4	 environment. Just as we kept stay really easy for a period of time, I want to do the same thing when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=369.9s	369.9	 I walk away. Stay. Yes. Good. I moved back just a little bit to kind of plant the seed that I still
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=376.4s	376.4	 want you to stay even though I'm going over there. And remember with young puppies like this, that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=380.4s	380.4	 are under five months of age, they're particularly clingy to you. So they like to stay near you. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=385.0s	385.0	 stay with distance can be particularly challenging with these guys. Stay. He's in a down now. Nope.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=391.4s	391.4	 Yeah. Good job. Did you see himself correct there? I love it when they do that. That was great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=395.8s	395.8	 I mean, he's starting to get it. That's the thing you want to reward good decisions that your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=400.5s	400.5	 makes on their own. That's really what dog training is all about. It's not about making them do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=404.6s	404.6	 something. It's about making them want to do the thing that you're asking them to do. Now let's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=408.9s	408.9	 see if we can combine stay for a period of time while I walk away at the same time. Stay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=414.3s	414.3	 Okay. Good. Come here. Good job. Toys add a completely new dimension to training for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=423.5s	423.5	 many, many dogs. You know, the philosopher Plato once said that you can learn more about a person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=428.6s	428.6	 in an hour of play than a year of conversation. I think that is so true, especially with dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=434.7s	434.7	 When you're introducing a new toy to your dog, go out of your way to make that first experience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=439.0s	439.0	 really exciting for them so that they're super intrigued by it. Even tease them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=443.7s	443.7	 keep away with it at first to make them even more interested in it. Of course, let them win here and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=448.8s	448.8	 there as well so that they keep interest in the toy. Experiment with a variety of different toys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=454.1s	454.1	 Just because your dog doesn't like one particular type of toy doesn't mean he won't love another.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=458.6s	458.6	 So variety is super key. Toys like this are very different than chew toys. You don't leave toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=463.7s	463.7	 like this or tennis balls or frisbees out when you're not attending to your dog. That keeps these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=468.5s	468.5	 extra special. If your dog always sees that toys like this are super exciting, then there are a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=473.2s	473.2	 more likely to focus on you when you're playing with toys like this. Sit. Yes. Stay. Okay, good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=481.3s	481.3	 Yes. Good job. We just rewarded by playing with him on a basic skill like stay. You have to practice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=486.7s	486.7	 these in a huge variety of different circumstances, situations, and environments, especially during
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=491.8s	491.8	 that first year of training. This is just one example of what one of many training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=496.8s	496.8	 should look like. If you want to help us continue to do our part in raising the standards and what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=501.3s	501.3	 it means to teach a dog, make a contribution to our Patreon campaign. I'll have a link in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=506.0s	506.0	 description. Give a thumbs up to BB8. He did so well today as usual. Also make sure you're subscribed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=512.1s	512.1	 to my channel. Set up automatic pet food delivery at petflow.com slash Zach George. I'll have some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=516.8s	516.8	 more videos in the description that'll give you more detailed lessons on some of the things we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=521.0s	521.0	 covered today. BB8, you are a legend, sir. To get the most out of my videos, pick up a copy of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=527.1s	527.1	 bestselling book Dog Training Revolution. I'll have a link below. Now if you've gotten a new puppy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=531.8s	531.8	 you are definitely at the right place. If you're struggling with puppy biting, see my video on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=535.9s	535.9	 that. Of course, potty training is something you will want to get started with immediately.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=540.4s	540.4	 I've got a great video on that with BB8 as well. Making sure that your dog is comfortable with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=545.3s	545.3	 leash is super important. See puppy's first leash lesson also featuring the amazing BB8.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=551.7s	551.7	 Thanks to all of our patrons and thank you so much for subscribing. We'll see you guys in the next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpDiO7Dqllk&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=522&pp=iAQB&t=556.8s	556.8	 episode.
