https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'll show you how to reliably make sure that your dog comes to you when you call them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=9.1s	9.1	 This episode of the Dog Training Revolution is sponsored by Pepло.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=12.6s	12.6	 Click thumbs up for Luca and if you're new to my channel click subscribe to learn how to teach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=16.2s	16.2	 your dog everything. Luca is a really smart girl but she's less than reliable when she's asked to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=21.5s	21.5	 come when called. Today we'll attempt to improve that. If you're looking for a super comprehensive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=26.3s	26.3	 dog training experience pick up a copy of my new book The Dog Training Revolution. I'll have a link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=30.8s	30.8	 in the description. Teaching your dog to come to you takes lots of training and consistency on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=35.3s	35.3	 part. Getting your dog's food to come to you automatically, well that's something you can get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=38.9s	38.9	 instant results with. Just go to Pepло and choose your brand of dog food and how often you want it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=43.6s	43.6	 to be delivered to your house and you'll never run out of dog food again. You've got to get your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=47.6s	47.6	 food anyway. Get it this way and know that you're supporting a company that doesn't sell dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 tools designed to train with pain. I'll have a special link in a coupon code in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=56.2s	56.2	 that'll give you 20% off of your first automatic shipment of your dog food. You'll understand that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=62.2s	62.2	 teaching your dog especially during that first year comes down to controlling where they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=66.2s	66.2	 and can't go. If your dog routinely gets used to not coming to you when you call them well then you've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=71.0s	71.0	 got a bad habit on your hands. For the first few months of teaching your dog to come to you when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=74.6s	74.6	 you call them make sure that you have a long lead about 20 feet or so in order to make sure that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=78.7s	78.7	 can get to your dog when you call them. Now that's not the same as a retractable leash. I like just a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=83.0s	83.0	 good old-fashioned simple one and I'll have a link in the description where you can pick one up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=86.6s	86.6	 See if your dog is never in a position to disregard your requests when you call them then you'll be in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=91.0s	91.0	 a much better position to create and solidify this good habit. Today we're going to be training in an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=96.1s	96.1	 outdoor environment. Now for that reason you'll want to make sure that your dog is very reliable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=100.8s	100.8	 on the steps we're going to cover today indoors first. That's because outdoor training can be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=105.4s	105.4	 lot more distracting to many dogs particularly if they're new to listening to you outside. Since
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=110.5s	110.5	 teaching your dog to come to you is such a vital skill you'll want to have a serious motivator. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=115.5s	115.5	 like to use cooked meat. Today I'll be using some deli meat with Luca but there's nothing wrong with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=120.2s	120.2	 using a really good dog treat too for more casual training sessions. The first thing I want to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=125.0s	125.0	 is ask Luca to sit. The reason I'm doing this, come here don't eat grass, sit. Very good. The reason I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=131.7s	131.7	 want to do that is I want to confirm that Luca is in a teachable mindset. See if your dog is new to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=138.3s	138.3	 this type of training you may need to let them sniff around. It's normal for ground sense to really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=143.1s	143.1	 distract a lot of dogs. It could take as much as 20 or 30 minutes before your dog is really ready
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=147.9s	147.9	 to listen to you. This is normal and much more common in the beginning and will get better over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=152.2s	152.2	 time. If you really want to give yourself a leg up when teaching your dog to come to you call them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=156.1s	156.1	 and an enthusiastic and a happy inviting voice. Luca come on yes good job and look at that tail
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=162.1s	162.1	 wagon right there I love that. If you can get your dog's tail wagon as they're coming to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=166.2s	166.2	 you're definitely on the right track. Avoid using a stern or angry voice. See we want to go out of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=172.2s	172.2	 our way to create as many instances of having a positive outcome to coming to us. If you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=178.4s	178.4	 consistently let your dog know look I'm worth coming to then you're going to make huge gains
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=183.8s	183.8	 on this in a short period of time. As your dog comes to you say something like come here or come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=188.9s	188.9	 or Luca come. Be extra generous as you pay your dog for those first couple of weeks. This creates
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=194.6s	194.6	 that great association with coming to you that you really want your dog to have. Let's say that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=198.6s	198.6	 your dog isn't really coming to you you're calling them in that happy voice but they're either
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=203.0s	203.0	 too distracted or just not really motivated by your enthusiasm at that particular moment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=207.7s	207.7	 Try coming up to them let them know you have that treat and lure them back to where you were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 calling them from. Over here look up here and see she's a little distracted by ground sense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=217.9s	217.9	 extremely normal don't be discouraged by that. Luca over here yes good Luca and I'm going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=224.3s	224.3	 keep these treats coming letting her know every step of the way it pays to listen to me. With
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=228.4s	228.4	 some dogs you have to really reward for those small incremental steps and this is what you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=232.5s	232.5	 would do with a dog who's a little bit more reluctant. Luca come here if you're calling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=236.6s	236.6	 your dog and they're not coming to you another thing that you can do that will help out is to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=240.3s	240.3	 shorten the distance. Luca come here come here very good nice work. A great shortcut to teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=247.4s	247.4	 your dog to come to you is engaging and a good old-fashioned game of chase if you're up for it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=251.8s	251.8	 Run away from your dog in order to encourage them to follow you this will really instill in their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=256.5s	256.5	 mind this concept of coming to you when you call them plus in most circumstances they'll really be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=261.1s	261.1	 enjoying themselves. Avoid missing opportunities when your dog comes to you when you don't call them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=266.6s	266.6	 to reward those too. Right now I'm not even calling her if she takes one step towards me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=270.6s	270.6	 I'm gonna let her know that I really really like that yes good job. Do not be in a hurry to wean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=276.6s	276.6	 them off of treats for many months of come when called training. That was great. As your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=281.9s	281.9	 doing really well with the steps that we've covered so far you'll want to introduce some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=285.9s	285.9	 distractions don't skip this part after all come when called doesn't really matter much unless
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=291.1s	291.1	 they'll do it when they're distracted. I've got my favorite pet flow squeaky toy here and I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=296.5s	296.5	 gonna start distracting her with it but I want you to notice something I'm gonna keep us in a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=301.2s	301.2	 close area I'm not gonna ask her to come to me all the way across the field with a distraction at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=306.2s	306.2	 first. Good Luca come here yes good that was really good that was nice I mean that's exactly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=312.2s	312.2	 what we're going for and I want to point out that we've really set her up for success already by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=316.5s	316.5	 taking these other steps. Luca come here come here yeah whoa did you see that? Luca tried to get the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=323.0s	323.0	 toy in mid-jump thought better of it and decided to come to me instead that's what you want you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=328.6s	328.6	 also try distracting them with some good food like this this might be a bit more tempting for Luca
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=334.5s	334.5	 right here see that ah ah Luca come here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=340.2s	340.2	 that didn't go very well this time I'm gonna try to be a step ahead of Luca and not let her get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=345.8s	345.8	 the treats so again my goal is to be able to have these treats here and get her to come to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=351.7s	351.7	 instead of those leave these alone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=356.0s	356.0	 good girl good come here come no leave it alone this could just as well be a squirrel I mean she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=365.2s	365.2	 very focused on this this is what she wants Luca come here yes come here yes look right there and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=373.8s	373.8	 she's still she hasn't forgotten about it she's one smart girl come here now if she goes for it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=379.9s	379.9	 I'm prepared to cover it up good come on yes good job I'm going to do something a little bit more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=386.6s	386.6	 ambitious now I'm going to put the bowl of treats right here that she really loves in between us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=391.6s	391.6	 and I'm going to ask her to come to me again I'm still going to be prepared to cover them up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=395.8s	395.8	 if I see it in her eyes that she's thinking about going to the distraction but she's quick so I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=399.9s	399.9	 have to be as well Luca come here yes good job and you can see her she looked right at the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=406.8s	406.8	 then made the decision to come to me those are the kind of habits we really want to reinforce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=411.2s	411.2	 now it is imperative to practice exercises like this and lots of different places for several
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=415.8s	415.8	 months in order to teach your dog to truly generalize coming to you no matter what there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=420.1s	420.1	 nothing more important to me than making sure that you guys have all of the knowledge you need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=423.6s	423.6	 teach your dog really thoughtfully support my videos by offering your financial support on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=428.2s	428.2	 patreon.com I'll have a link in the description click thumbs up if you think Luca did a good job
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=433.3s	433.3	 I certainly think she did make sure you subscribe to my channel because I have so many fun videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=437.8s	437.8	 coming your way don't forget to set up automatic pet food delivery at petflow.com that link will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=442.2s	442.2	 be in the description and pick up a copy of my all new book Zach George's Dog Training Revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=447.0s	447.0	 that link will be in the description too you did great nice work if you need help teaching your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=452.3s	452.3	 dog to bark or stop barking check out my recent video with Jacob the rescue dog I'll cover some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=457.6s	457.6	 excellent exercises you can do to improve communication between you and your dog I highly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=462.8s	462.8	 recommend you check out my book Dog Training Revolution and use both the book and my YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=467.6s	467.6	 videos as your guide to teaching your dog check out the video about the book if you're interested
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=472.2s	472.2	 in that of course I can never have enough videos about leash walking see how my recent leash walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=477.0s	477.0	 session went with Jacob in how to teach your dog to walk nicely on a leash thank you so much for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=482.4s	482.4	 subscribing and thank you so much to all of our patrons on Patreon who help make these videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eK8obO58qxY&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=526&pp=iAQB&t=487.5s	487.5	 possible we'll see you guys in the next video
