https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 So you've decided to get a new dog. Congratulations. That's a huge decision.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 Today BB8 and I are going to make sure that you're prepared for your new family member.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=14.4s	14.4	 Today's video is sponsored by PepFlo. Click thumbs up for the galactic super puppy himself,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=20.0s	20.0	 BB8. While you're at it, click subscribe too so that you see all of my past, present, and future
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=24.6s	24.6	 videos. Today I'm going to show you what you need to do and have on hand before your puppy comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=28.9s	28.9	 home. I'm also going to have a playlist in the description that will show you how to teach your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=32.6s	32.6	 puppy all of the basics in order. Look at you. You're like a little space alien. Let's talk about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=38.6s	38.6	 food first. Chances are your dog came from a breeder or a shelter. Find out what your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=43.0s	43.0	 has been eating and get a bag of that dog food. Now if you do opt to change the kind of dog food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=47.5s	47.5	 that your dog is eating, phase it in over a period of about two weeks, gradually phasing in more of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 the dog food of your choice. That's because if you change your puppy's food all at one time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=56.2s	56.2	 you're likely to upset their stomach. PepFlo is a sponsor of this video. I work with PepFlo because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=61.5s	61.5	 I think they really do offer a way to make your life better and easier. So needless to say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=66.7s	66.7	 I think you should get your dog food from PepFlo. The great thing about them is that you can go and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=71.7s	71.7	 you order your dog food one time and then it's just automatically there whenever you need it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=75.8s	75.8	 You just select how often you want to deliver. They save you the hassle of having to drive to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=80.1s	80.1	 the store every week or two to get your dog food. I love that they and you guys support content like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 this because I think it's so important. Now I'll have their link in the description along with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=89.8s	89.8	 coupon code that'll give you an awesome discount on your first order. Did you know that the biggest
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=93.8s	93.8	 mistake new puppy parents make is giving their puppy too much freedom way too early on? Don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=99.5s	99.5	 make that mistake. A dog crate, a puppy playpen, and baby gates are fantastic because they help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=105.0s	105.0	 you control your dog's environment, an extremely important thing with a new dog, and they're great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=109.5s	109.5	 for potty training. I'll have a video in the description that will give you all the details
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=113.8s	113.8	 on house training. Having a safe place for your dog to hang out when you can't supervise and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 having them on leash are the ideal ways to keep your dog out of trouble. Get several nylon leashes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 if possible so that you always have one that's convenient. Nylon leashes are especially nice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 because you can wash them pretty easily and remember your dog is going to need to be leashed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 pretty much full time. I will supervise you and you will be the perfect dog. Puppy proof your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=136.8s	136.8	 before your dog comes home and make sure he doesn't have access to anything potentially dangerous like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=141.0s	141.0	 electrical cords. Those are a favorite chew toy of many a puppy. Do the obvious things like keeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=146.7s	146.7	 garbage cans and house plants away from your dog and where they don't have access to them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=151.2s	151.2	 Keep cleaners and chemicals secured behind cabinets too and generally do a good once over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=156.4s	156.4	 of your house. Make sure there's nothing too small or something that they could access that would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=159.8s	159.8	 potentially injure them. Do your best to see your house from your puppy's point of view.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=164.0s	164.0	 Puppies are very curious and they'll quickly find anything that you've missed or that they can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=168.8s	168.8	 possibly put in their mouth or play with. But don't worry in a minute I'll give you some advice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 on chewing, training, rewards, and more. So what about dog bowls? Well I recommend that you get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=178.4s	178.4	 several dog bowls. That way you can wash them and swap them out every single day and always have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=183.0s	183.0	 clean bowl. I think stainless steel bowls are a little bit better than plastic because they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=186.9s	186.9	 easier to clean and your dog is also a lot less likely to chew these up. You'll need a collar too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=191.8s	191.8	 to put your dog's ID tags and rabies tags on and be sure to include your phone number and address
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=197.5s	197.5	 on your dog's ID tag. It's a good idea to have a harness as well. Puppies like this especially are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=202.2s	202.2	 growing and developing so you want a way to easily supervise them and walk them and the harness is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=208.2s	208.2	 probably the safest way to do that for a young dog. Nope this isn't a tug toy. We're gonna talk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=212.8s	212.8	 about toys just can't no no. There are two main types of toys that you'll need to get for your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=217.4s	217.4	 dog especially if you have a puppy. There's two toys like this which include things like real bones
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=222.8s	222.8	 and other toys specifically designed for dogs to chew on and then there's training toys like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=229.1s	229.1	 which are things like balls, frisbees, tug toys and anything else your dog really loves. Most people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=234.6s	234.6	 don't understand the difference between these two types of toys but it's actually very simple.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=238.7s	238.7	 Leaving out chew toys like this is fine but don't leave training toys lying around for your dog to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=243.4s	243.4	 just investigate. We want to keep these toys really special because when I'm able to just bring these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=248.1s	248.1	 out for training I'm in a position to keep them really exciting and really interesting to a dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=252.6s	252.6	 Keep away is always a nice way to ignite interest in a new toy. Quick let him win every once in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=257.7s	257.7	 while to make sure that he doesn't get too frustrated. Toys like this are so important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=262.3s	262.3	 because you can really keep their attention and tug of war is really satisfying to most dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=267.4s	267.4	 so you can use that to motivate them like sit yes get it like that. Food isn't the only thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=274.2s	274.2	 that you need to reward with. Get a variety of different toys so that you can experiment and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=278.0s	278.0	 figure out which ones your dog really loves playing with. He likes a tennis ball that's my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=282.4s	282.4	 kind of dog and it's normal for your dog to be interested in one toy at one moment and another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=287.6s	287.6	 toy at a different moment. For example you know a little while ago he couldn't get enough of yoda
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=291.6s	291.6	 over here and now he's got a tennis ball and he's into that and in five minutes he'll probably be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=296.2s	296.2	 into this. Don't give up on a toy because they're not in the mood for that particular toy at that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=301.1s	301.1	 moment. Makes sense? Toys like this are really good to keep your dog occupied because you can put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=305.6s	305.6	 kibble inside of it and they can move it around and interact with it and it keeps their attention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=311.2s	311.2	 obviously because food keeps coming out of it and he's using his brain he's thinking here so that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=315.5s	315.5	 one of the things I really love about a toy like this. For some older dogs and especially puppies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=320.6s	320.6	 it's important to have a lot of different chew toys. For example sometimes the dog is in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=324.4s	324.4	 mood for something really hard like this or this bone over here and then other times they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=329.7s	329.7	 interested in something a little bit more kind of in between like this plastic bone here and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=334.7s	334.7	 still other times they prefer something soft like this. I'm a fan of natural chew toys like this you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=340.6s	340.6	 know like real bones dogs tend to really like them pretty much instantly. That's a trick you're walking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=346.3s	346.3	 on your hind legs oh my gosh. It's a good idea for chew toys to be pretty oversized too much better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=351.6s	351.6	 to be too big rather than too small. Just make sure that they don't splinter or break and if they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=356.1s	356.1	 do get rid of them. You'll want to have a cozy place for your dog to sleep and hang out but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=360.2s	360.2	 young puppies like BB8 and insistent chewers will likely destroy a normal dog bed if you just give
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=366.2s	366.2	 them access to it if they haven't been taught properly yet. Old towels and a blanket like this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=371.0s	371.0	 are really good alternatives to a dog bed because they're cheaper they're easier to clean and usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=376.1s	376.1	 less tempting for a dog to chew up though you'll still want to supervise them just to make sure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=381.6s	381.6	 If you need to stock up on supplies I'll have links to some of my favorite products in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=385.3s	385.3	 description. Click thumbs up if you guys found this video helpful and if you think BB8 did a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=390.4s	390.4	 job also make sure you're subscribed we have some awesome videos coming up. Help me continue making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=395.4s	395.4	 content like this that will improve the lives of puppies and their parents by making a contribution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=400.8s	400.8	 of any amount you'd like to our Patreon campaign. Set up automatic pet food delivery with PepFloat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=406.2s	406.2	 I'll have a link in the description as well as a coupon code that'll give you a terrific discount
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=411.0s	411.0	 on your first order. See you guys in the next episode of the dog training revolution. Good job!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=416.6s	416.6	 BB8 is awesome if you have a puppy you'll definitely want to check out these videos plus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=421.4s	421.4	 the training playlist I mentioned earlier that playlist will be in the description. Thanks for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=426.1s	426.1	 subscribing and thanks to all of our patrons on Patreon. We'll see you guys in the next video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=---jcia5ufM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=529&pp=iAQB&t=446.6s	446.6	 you
