https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 If you want to know the most efficient way to house train your new puppy or dog today's episode is for you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=10.2s	10.2	 House training is a little bit more involved than most people imagine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=13.3s	13.3	 But today I'm going to show you the steps you need to take in order to make the process as smooth as possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=17.7s	17.7	 Click thumbs up if you love puppy training videos, and if you're new to my channel click subscribe right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=22.8s	22.8	 It's always free now one of the easiest things you can do to set up your new pup for house training success is to feed them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=28.6s	28.6	 On a consistent schedule you should also be feeding your puppy a high quality food as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=32.8s	32.8	 I recommend that you get your food from pet flow comm slash Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=37.1s	37.1	 Why because you never need to leave the house to get your puppy's food and it arrives at any time interval you'd like just pick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=43.4s	43.4	 Your puppy's food and how often you want it delivered to your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=46.5s	46.5	 We want to revolutionize the way people teach dogs help us do that by changing the way you buy dog food look
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=52.4s	52.4	 You're gonna get your puppy's food anyway get it this way and make your life a lot easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=56.6s	56.6	 I'll have a special link in a coupon code in the description that will give you a fantastic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=60.8s	60.8	 Discount on your first order now. What do you say we go do some house training with BB8 the Alaskan clique?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=66.5s	66.5	 I it's our responsibility as people to show our dogs where they can and can't go and house training is a month-long process
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=74.0s	74.0	 But it's a good opportunity for you to become consistent and that is a telltale sign of a good teacher
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=79.9s	79.9	 See dogs aren't born knowing where they should and shouldn't relieve themselves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=83.7s	83.7	 House training success is fastest achieved when you get really good at controlling your dog's environment and supervising them really well our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=90.9s	90.9	 Overall goal is to teach our dogs that our house is their house see instinctively dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=96.5s	96.5	 Don't like to do their business where they live and sleep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=99.0s	99.0	 But it can take a while for them to generalize an entire house as their primary residence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=104.2s	104.2	 Let me show you what I mean if this is your house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 You first want your dog to understand that this area is their living space before expecting them to generalize the whole living room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=113.1s	113.1	 The kitchen bathroom and so on until they've learned that the whole house is their house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=119.0s	119.0	 You do this by slowly giving your dog access to the rest of the house under heavy supervision
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 Over time along with taking them outside very often. So what are the best ways to control your dog's environment?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=131.1s	131.1	 I've found that the best way is by actually attaching a leash to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=134.8s	134.8	 This way your dog can't wander off into another room and you're in a better position to kind of take cues from your dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=141.1s	141.1	 Might want to go outside now if you need help introducing a leash and a harness to your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=145.6s	145.6	 I'll have a link in the description baby gates are a great way to control where your dog can and can't go you could also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=151.1s	151.1	 Get a puppy playpen like this one and this will give your dog a fair amount of room when you want to break from heavy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=156.8s	156.8	 Supervision from time to time no matter how you decide to control your dog's environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=160.6s	160.6	 Make sure you go out of your way to ensure that they're having a great time in whatever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=165.2s	165.2	 Environment you choose a crate is a nice way to give your dog a cozy place to hang out when you can't really supervise them now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=170.9s	170.9	 Since a crate is pretty small relative to a big room your dog is less likely to do their business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=175.7s	175.7	 Inside of the crate and they'll be more likely to accept it as their primary living space
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=180.3s	180.3	 Remember dogs don't like to do their business where they live and sleep understand though. The crate is not a dog sitter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=185.7s	185.7	 It's just a way to keep your dog safe and out of trouble for short periods of time when you absolutely can't supervise them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=191.7s	191.7	 But you want to introduce the crate delicately in order to make sure that your dog enjoys being inside first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=197.1s	197.1	 We're gonna let BB8 just kind of explore the crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=199.7s	199.7	 I'm gonna open it up. Let him smell it. Let him check it out not forcing him in the crate at all. That's really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=206.3s	206.3	 I like how he reacted there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=207.5s	207.5	 I'm just gonna give him a treat again just to create a positive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=210.9s	210.9	 Association while being in the presence of this crate and I'm gonna try and get him to go inside of the crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=215.8s	215.8	 Voluntarily because I don't want to force him in the crate. I want him to want to go in the crate good now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=221.4s	221.4	 You're learning I'm gonna set one right there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=223.8s	223.8	 Awesome that I mean that is terrific. That's really good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=227.2s	227.2	 I'm gonna try and put the treat in a little bit farther now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=231.5s	231.5	 Go get it. Oh, look at that. Did you see that? He went in all by himself again keeping the store open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=237.0s	237.0	 Letting him know he can come and go at least at this point in his training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=240.7s	240.7	 You can even treat him from outside of the crate right here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=243.0s	243.0	 And really I'm just trying to achieve getting him comfortable with being in here for a little bit longer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=249.6s	249.6	 I'm using tiny pieces of real chicken now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=252.7s	252.7	 I'm gonna close the door like this and I'm gonna lock it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=255.5s	255.5	 But I'm not going to just walk away and leave him alone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=259.4s	259.4	 Give him another treat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=261.0s	261.0	 That's good idea to just kind of hang out with your dog like this for a little while especially those first few training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=266.1s	266.1	 You might notice that I have a divider panel in this particular crate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=269.4s	269.4	 That's because I don't want it to be too big for him right off the bat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=273.2s	273.2	 The crate should be big enough for your dog to very comfortably move around in but not necessarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=277.9s	277.9	 Take several steps in a row in this is a very temporary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=281.8s	281.8	 Step after your dog has started to make the connection that this is where they hang out a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=286.0s	286.0	 You can then begin to enlarge the crate to be clear an oversized crate is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=291.7s	291.7	 Absolutely fine after your dog has gone several days without having an accident in the crate in the beginning place the crate near your bed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=298.4s	298.4	 So that your dog is less likely to have anxiety when you go to bed at night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=301.6s	301.6	 It's normal that your puppy might keep you awake sometimes in the middle of the night and yeah
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=305.6s	305.6	 You'll have to get in the habit of getting up and taking them outside. Hey, that's just part of having a puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=309.9s	309.9	 It'll get better though and later you can move the crate into another room if you want to now a good rule of thumb for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=315.2s	315.2	 How long your dog should be in the crate is roughly one hour per month of age
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=319.5s	319.5	 However, you really want to avoid having any dog stay in a crate for more than four or five hours at a time at any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=325.1s	325.1	 Age with the exception of overnight. See this is why it's important to have additional puppy proofed areas available like a puppy proofed laundry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=332.4s	332.4	 Room or bathroom where you can tolerate potty accidents if they do occur in case you do need to leave your dog alone for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=338.7s	338.7	 While before leaving your dog alone for many hours at a time do your best to give them age appropriate exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=344.0s	344.0	 Now since many of us have jobs that require us to be away from the house for more than eight hours at a time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=349.0s	349.0	 Make arrangements to come home at lunch and let them out and play for about 30 or 45 minutes if possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=354.3s	354.3	 If this is impractical for you, though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=356.4s	356.4	 You might need to enlist the help of a friend family member dog walker or doggy daycare. Oh, you're good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=362.5s	362.5	 So how often should you let your dog outside to go on a potty break?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=365.8s	365.8	 Well in general I recommend about once an hour make sure you take them outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=369.4s	369.4	 Immediately upon arriving home or waking up be prepared to stay outside for five to ten minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=373.8s	373.8	 It's okay if they don't go each time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=375.5s	375.5	 But it's important that you continually give them the opportunity to go now in cases where they've been left alone for two or more hours
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=381.8s	381.8	 Make sure you take them outside immediately upon arriving home or waking up while you're waiting for your dog to relieve himself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=387.0s	387.0	 Be boring. Just let him check out the environment because you don't want to distract him now when he finishes going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=392.4s	392.4	 That's when you reward him big. Yes. Good boy. Good boy. You did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=397.5s	397.5	 Terrific Wow, you went poop outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=400.2s	400.2	 It's as though going potty outside unlocks the most fun version of you to your dog now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=405.2s	405.2	 You can reward him with a great treat or even a short play session
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=408.5s	408.5	 Creating positive associations in this way will make your dog actually want to go outside to do their business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=413.7s	413.7	 Now if your dog does have an accident inside don't punish him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=417.2s	417.2	 This is about as effective as punishing an infant for going in their diaper
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=420.6s	420.6	 Your dog isn't to blame for this accident either you weren't consistent enough or you didn't control the environment well enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=426.6s	426.6	 Just do a better job next time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=428.1s	428.1	 So what do you do if you actually catch your dog in the act of going inside?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=431.8s	431.8	 Well, if possible pick them up and rush them outside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=435.0s	435.0	 Otherwise clean up the mess doing your best to eliminate any odors and do a better job of following the steps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=440.4s	440.4	 I've outlined in this video so far now some of you might be wondering about submissive or excitement urination
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=446.1s	446.1	 That's where your dog pees when they get a little nervous or extra excited
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=449.9s	449.9	 Now typically most dogs will outgrow this by the time they're 12 to 18 months of age
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=454.4s	454.4	 But if you prioritize socializing your dog, they'll probably get there sooner rather than later in general
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=459.9s	459.9	 I'd recommend against using puppy pads unless you have a unique situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=463.8s	463.8	 Like maybe you live in a high-rise apartment where it's impractical to get your dog outside very often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=468.7s	468.7	 That's because dogs generally develop a preference to whatever texture they experience most often while relieving themselves
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=475.9s	475.9	 So if you want your dog to go on grass full-time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=478.6s	478.6	 Well, just introduce them to lots of grass and give lots of praise when they do their business in the right place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=483.9s	483.9	 Most people celebrate house training success a little bit too prematurely. So how will you know when your dog is completely house-trained?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=491.1s	491.1	 Well, I'd say that once they go one to two months with absolutely no accidents and can go several hours between potty breaks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=498.2s	498.2	 You're probably out of the woods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=500.1s	500.1	 Aggression is likely especially in the first year or if you move or your dog experiences another major change to their environment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=507.0s	507.0	 If this happens just take a step back and go back to basics whether you have a puppy or an adult dog remain vigilant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=512.6s	512.6	 For six straight months without letting your guard down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=515.6s	515.6	 Dogs are relinquished all of the time because of issues with house training and other problem behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=521.4s	521.4	 Support content like this by contributing any amount you'd like to our patreon campaign
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=525.4s	525.4	 This money goes directly to producing these videos. So go check it out and consider supporting the cause
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=530.7s	530.7	 Don't forget to set up automatic pet food delivery with pet flow comm I'll have a link and an awesome coupon code in the description
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=536.3s	536.3	 That'll give you a terrific deal on your first auto ship order
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=539.4s	539.4	 And if you think BB8 is out of this world click thumbs up and make sure you're subscribed to the dog training revolution
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=545.7s	545.7	 See you guys next time if you thought BB8 was BB great
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=549.2s	549.2	 Then you'll want to check out how to at least train your puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=552.6s	552.6	 I've got lots more videos with BB8 coming too
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=554.7s	554.7	 Are you unsure on how to achieve better communication with your dog then check out the art of communicating with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=561.1s	561.1	 Now if you have a hyperactive dog or dog that begs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=564.1s	564.1	 I'll give you a great lesson on both of these topics and stop begging and settle down with Jacob the rescue dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=570.9s	570.9	 Thanks for your support on patreon too and hit that subscribe button if you haven't already. We'll see you guys in the next video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vOXWCewEYM&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=534&pp=iAQB&t=582.4s	582.4	 You
