https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to give you some tips on keeping your dog engaged and focused for the long haul.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=12.6s	12.6	 One of the continuing challenges when teaching a dog is keeping things interesting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=17.1s	17.1	 It's normal when a dog is learning fetch, for example, to get bored with certain toys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=21.0s	21.0	 Now this can be really frustrating, but today I'm going to show you how I get around this as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=25.8s	25.8	 Mixing things up is what keeps dogs engaged. Toys get worn out, treats get eaten.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=30.3s	30.3	 Keeping things new and exciting is the fastest way to accelerate your training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=34.6s	34.6	 The trick is continually finding new things that your dog will find truly engaging.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 You guys have probably heard of bark box. They send you really fun,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=43.0s	43.0	 high quality things every month that your dog will absolutely love.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=46.4s	46.4	 This is an ideal solution for Jacob, especially since he's in his first year of training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=50.8s	50.8	 That's a really critical time. They'll send things to you every month,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=54.0s	54.0	 things that you would not even think of and things your dog will really enjoy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=58.0s	58.0	 This is a perfect solution for keeping your training fun and interesting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=61.5s	61.5	 A key ingredient for progress. Let's see what bark boxes said Jacob this month.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=66.4s	66.4	 Jacob can't wait to get into this. Don't bite it. What do you know? Don't bite it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=70.3s	70.3	 Dogs interest can be peaked by the most unusual things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=73.7s	73.7	 You almost have to see this, but this texture is really interesting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=77.0s	77.0	 It's kind of like this webby plastic texture in here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=80.1s	80.1	 Some dogs are going to go crazy over this and absolutely love that texture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=84.3s	84.3	 Whenever I introduce a new toy to a dog, I like to take advantage of that opportunity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=89.0s	89.0	 to make it really interesting to that particular dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=92.6s	92.6	 Now, Jacob, as you can see, loves it when I make it really animated.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=96.1s	96.1	 If your dog were a little bit more reserved, then you might start off by having them sniff it and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=100.5s	100.5	 investigate it. Either way, the key is to make it interesting to your dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=104.6s	104.6	 And the best time to do that is generally the first time they see the toy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=108.3s	108.3	 You can see how when you just introduce something unfamiliar, something new,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=111.9s	111.9	 your dog's interest is completely renewed in training.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=115.0s	115.0	 Sometimes that's all it takes to break through to the next level.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=117.8s	117.8	 And if having a new toy like this gives me an extra few days of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 extra enthusiastic cooperation from Jacob, then that's awesome.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=124.6s	124.6	 Not all toys are for all dogs. And if Jacob didn't like this toy for any reason,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=128.7s	128.7	 they would replace it with one that he did like. I think that's pretty cool.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=132.1s	132.1	 And Jacob, for Jacob, we chose the big and bold option, which includes extra durable toys for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=140.3s	140.3	 dogs who are strong chewers. This is an original fetch toy. This is cool because look, you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=145.1s	145.1	 turn it into a ball like this, or you can have it be a more traditional dumbbell like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=151.4s	151.4	 So your dog can easily grab it from the Jacob. That's the wrong toy. Jacob is kind of weak.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=156.2s	156.2	 I'm bringing back unfamiliar objects when I play fetch. So we're going to work on that a little bit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=161.4s	161.4	 It's normal for a dog to be reluctant to buy a new toy if they haven't gotten familiar with it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=165.7s	165.7	 So I'm trying to let him know it's okay to buy it harder here. Get it. Get it. There he goes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=169.4s	169.4	 Really good. That was quick. I'm satisfied that I've really piqued his interest in the toy now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=173.9s	173.9	 So I'm going to toss it a short distance. Come here, Jacob. Yes. Let's make it a ball now and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=180.2s	180.2	 see what he does. This makes it a completely different toy. You can see his eyes lighting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=183.9s	183.9	 up when it transformed into a new toy. He's like, this is different. Jacob, come here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=190.6s	190.6	 Jacob, come. Come on. He's a little reluctant to bring it back to me. A way to really improve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=195.0s	195.0	 the odds that a dog will bring something new back to you, something they're not familiar with,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=198.8s	198.8	 is to shorten the distance between you and them. And then once they pick the item up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=204.1s	204.1	 run the other way. Get them to chase you. So I'm trying to bring the toy back to life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=208.0s	208.0	 Then I'm going to try and get him to chase me. If he gets it, get it, get it. Come on. Let's go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=213.0s	213.0	 Good boy. Good job. Let go. Go get it. And then I'm going to immediately give it back to let him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=219.1s	219.1	 know that game continues. It's a lot of fun. If that doesn't work, you should have your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=223.4s	223.4	 on a long lead so that you can encourage them to come back. Good work. So good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=231.2s	231.2	 Jacob, let's see if there's anything in here we can use for Jacob's new spin trick. This is a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=237.0s	237.0	 fun one we've been working on. Oh, hold on. Let me find the perfect thing. Okay. These are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=243.8s	243.8	 pepperoni recipe mini yumzies, soft training dog treats made with real chicken. I think these will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=250.6s	250.6	 do the trick. I like to break them up into even smaller pieces. So really one of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=256.2s	256.2	 equals like five or six treats to me. You're going to like these buddy. Come here. Sit. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=262.6s	262.6	 How are you supposed to enjoy the real chicken if you don't chew it? Spin. Yes. You saw him think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=269.8s	269.8	 about it for just a second there. But then he like thought through it and did the perfect spin.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=273.9s	273.9	 I love it. There are a ton of toys and treats in this month's box. I look at this as buying an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=278.5s	278.5	 extra good time for the dogs that I work with and teach. And the more fun we can have with our dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=282.8s	282.8	 the faster their training will skyrocket. Order a BarkBox for your dog through my special link,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=287.8s	287.8	 barkbox.com slash Zach George. BarkBox comes in one, three, six and 12 month plans. I'll have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=294.2s	294.2	 link in the description. What are you doing? When you do order your subscription, you'll get one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=299.8s	299.8	 free month. For example, if you get a three month plan, they'll actually send you four bark boxes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xgaX0kfx94&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=539&pp=iAQB&t=305.5s	305.5	 And I think that is a fantastic deal. I think Jacob did a great job. Let's give them a big thumbs up.
