https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Recently, I asked you guys on Facebook for your questions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=2.4s	2.4	 I'll be discussing why your dog goes bonkers when you leave the house and try and teach them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=7.2s	7.2	 why it's counterproductive to be your dog's pack leader,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=10.8s	10.8	 and I'll be giving you some potty training advice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=13.0s	13.0	 Oh yeah, and I'm also taking a puppy biting question.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=15.9s	15.9	 Give me a big thumbs up, like me on Facebook, and who knows, maybe I'll answer your question next time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=21.3s	21.3	 She is alive, I promise. She just doesn't move.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=24.1s	24.1	 Being transparent with all of you has always been extremely important to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=27.6s	27.6	 and I know I've told you guys about PetFlow's automatic pet food delivery service and how awesome it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=32.7s	32.7	 In the interest of full disclosure, I want to kind of let you know how our arrangement works
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=36.1s	36.1	 and why it's beneficial for you to consider getting your pet food from petflow.com slash Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=43.3s	43.3	 rather than the way you currently get it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=45.4s	45.4	 Essentially, PetFlow contributes 10% of all sales that are made through petflow.com slash Zach George
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=52.5s	52.5	 right back to our production so that I can continue to make you great videos,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=57.0s	57.0	 and this in combination with our crowdfunding efforts on Patreon have really helped a lot.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=62.5s	62.5	 You can go onto PetFlow and buy your dog's food just one time if you'd like.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=66.6s	66.6	 Enter code ZachGeorge15 when you check out, and you'll get 15% off of that order.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=71.8s	71.8	 Now, if you are ready to sign up for automatic pet food delivery, just enter code ZACH20 when you check out,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=77.8s	77.8	 and you can receive 20% off of your first order.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=81.7s	81.7	 Oh gosh, okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=83.5s	83.5	 Okay, okay, you ready to get down?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=85.6s	85.6	 All right, there you go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=88.0s	88.0	 Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=90.2s	90.2	 Now this one comes from Carrie.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 Carrie says, Zach, we've done well with your puppy training videos,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=94.7s	94.7	 but there's one major thing that I can't seem to get.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=97.2s	97.2	 My 14-month-old lab is a gem at home, work, and the park,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=101.7s	101.7	 but take her anywhere new and she goes bonkers.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=105.4s	105.4	 Great question.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=106.6s	106.6	 I think a lot of you really are experiencing that with your own dogs, especially around that age.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=111.5s	111.5	 I mean, one year is when they start to really get smart, start to understand what you want,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=115.6s	115.6	 you're really starting to click with your dog a lot,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=118.2s	118.2	 but still working with them in new, distracting, exciting places is problematic for many of you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=124.8s	124.8	 I'm going to help you with that though.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=126.0s	126.0	 The most significant thing you can do to complicate training sessions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=129.8s	129.8	 or to make them more challenging for your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=131.9s	131.9	 is to train in distracting situations that they're not used to being in.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=137.0s	137.0	 This is by far the fastest way to throw your dog off and confuse them, but that's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=142.5s	142.5	 It doesn't mean we can't work through it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=144.2s	144.2	 but you need to kind of take a different strategy when doing this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=147.7s	147.7	 Of course, this catches many of us off guard because our dog will sit, lie down, stay,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=152.1s	152.1	 come and do all of that in the comfort of our own home,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=155.0s	155.0	 but then we go to another place and they're much less likely to listen to us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=159.5s	159.5	 So really this comes down to the more used to being in a place your dog is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=163.5s	163.5	 the more likely they are to listen to you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=165.3s	165.3	 which might explain why your dog is much more cooperative at the park or at your work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=171.1s	171.1	 And lucky you, you get to take your dog to work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=173.3s	173.3	 This is a mild tangent I want to go, but I think you'll agree that it's a valid point.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=178.2s	178.2	 So many bad training strategies are based upon this flawed idea that a dog is acting out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=184.8s	184.8	 and acting excited and disobedient simply because they're trying to control you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=190.3s	190.3	 or they're trying to be dominant.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=191.7s	191.7	 So that's why they're just acting incredibly hyper and aggressive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=194.7s	194.7	 because they're like, Hey, I'm going to control this. You do what I say.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=197.1s	197.1	 Right. The problem is when you try and build a strategy on top of bad hypotheses,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=202.7s	202.7	 you're just going to get incomplete results at best.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=205.8s	205.8	 So it's extremely important to really understand why a dog behaves this way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=211.1s	211.1	 Dogs are intelligent, curious animals.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=213.4s	213.4	 Fundamentally, this is what has really deteriorated the dog training industry as a whole,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=220.3s	220.3	 because people think they should use this heavy handed approach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=223.1s	223.1	 and throw a choke chain or a prong collar or a shock collar on a dog to get control of them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=227.7s	227.7	 really show them that you're in charge.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=229.7s	229.7	 And this is so unfortunate because remember dogs like this, you said you had a lab
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=233.7s	233.7	 and labs specifically were bred for hundreds of years to have incredible stamina and endurance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=240.7s	240.7	 So I would say that for those of you out there dealing with a hyper dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=244.2s	244.2	 who's disobedient when you leave the house to really keep this in mind,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=248.3s	248.3	 which brings me to my next very important point.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=252.0s	252.0	 It's not even reasonable to expect a full on high energy dog to listen to you and to absorb new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=258.5s	258.5	 concepts unless you've exercised them just before a training session or just before teaching them a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=266.2s	266.2	 new concept. That's critical. You have to get the overflowing energy out before you can expect new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=271.0s	271.0	 stuff to get in. But if you do that, you can expect them to absorb these concepts at a much more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=276.8s	276.8	 rapid rate. Train in a huge variety of different places too. Ultimately, we want to work with our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=283.0s	283.0	 dogs in almost any situation we can imagine that they're going to be put in before we put them into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=288.6s	288.6	 that situation. So for some of you, that might mean walking your dog by the local elementary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=294.3s	294.3	 school during off hours so that you can work with them on their basic training. For those of you that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=299.2s	299.2	 have a dog that isn't that good at the park or maybe they're good at the park until someone comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=303.7s	303.7	 up, work with them while a baseball game is going on in the distance and really get them solid before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=309.0s	309.0	 getting closer to those things. Protocol when your dog is not listening to you in public is to create
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=313.8s	313.8	 distance between them and the thing that's distracting them. If even that doesn't work,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=318.5s	318.5	 that just simply means that you haven't done the appropriate training yet and you need to work up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=322.6s	322.6	 to that. It may even mean starting a training session right at the threshold of your front door.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=327.4s	327.4	 For many dogs, they'll listen just fine at the front door, but the second you go outside is when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=332.8s	332.8	 they start acting like they're on another planet or something. The good news is once you start to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=337.7s	337.7	 get traction, progress starts to come a lot faster as long as you keep a patient understanding,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=343.6s	343.6	 non-frustrated attitude. Frustration will kill any progress that you might have a chance at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=349.5s	349.5	 achieving. Now sometimes you want to take your dog to a place that they're not really prepared to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=353.6s	353.6	 listen to you in, but you still want to take them there. Maybe it's a local festival. We have a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=357.1s	357.1	 of those here in New Orleans. So that's something you could do, but you also want to keep your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=361.1s	361.1	 expectations realistic. Be prepared to be tolerant of a dog pulling on the leash, for example,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=366.3s	366.3	 if they're very excited until you can work with them a little bit more. You don't train a dog from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=371.7s	371.7	 A to Z. This is the problem with a lot of traditional dog training advice is that they tell you to put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=378.6s	378.6	 a collar around your dog's neck designed to create discomfort so that you can just jerk on it every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=383.6s	383.6	 time they do something you don't like. And the idea is that your dog learns to avoid pain and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=390.7s	390.7	 that's how you get there. But the problem with that strategy is it doesn't work without the tools
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=396.1s	396.1	 on and you become reliant on these tools. And worse yet, you're compromising the bond with your dog in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=401.4s	401.4	 every single training session when that's exactly the opposite thing you should be doing. Using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=406.8s	406.8	 tools like this does nothing to promote a bond between a person and a dog. And if you hear nothing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=412.2s	412.2	 else in this video, that's what I want most of you to really understand about traditional dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=417.0s	417.0	 training that tells you to interact with your dog in this unfortunate way. This question comes from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=422.6s	422.6	 Heather. Heather says, how do I get my dog to see me as a pack leader so he'll quit being so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=428.2s	428.2	 protective and pulling on the leash outside? Well, I did just address a big reason that dogs pull on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=434.4s	434.4	 the leash. To be clear about it, dogs walk faster than we do. That is the main reason they pull on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=439.6s	439.6	 a leash. Couple that with putting them in an exciting environment like the outdoors. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=444.2s	444.2	 really all it takes. And then you've got an excited dog that walks faster than you do. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=448.6s	448.6	 you're going to see that amplified, of course. So first, let's understand what's going on before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=453.5s	453.5	 we talk about any training strategy or anything about being a pack leader. The term pack leader
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=458.6s	458.6	 is just kind of a generic term that's been used in dog training for one reason or another. And it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=464.6s	464.6	 means different things to different people. Being a pack leader to a dog trainer usually means
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=470.4s	470.4	 catering to the ancestral wolf qualities of the domestic dog. So the idea goes that dogs came from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=477.2s	477.2	 wolves. Let's see what wolves do in the wild. Let's teach our dogs like that. And it gets really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=483.2s	483.2	 really messy because number one, the way wolves behave in the wild is not in the way that many
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=488.3s	488.3	 dog trainers think they do. They haven't updated their knowledge of science yet to really understand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=493.0s	493.0	 that that's kind of a flawed thing. But that's another video. And I've actually made videos on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=497.0s	497.0	 this before and you can go back and check out the dominance myth if you want to understand that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=501.1s	501.1	 I'll have it in the description. We didn't selectively breed dogs to be more like wolves,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=506.2s	506.2	 quite the opposite. We actually selectively bred the dogs that were really good at doing their jobs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=511.0s	511.0	 or otherwise interacting with a human being. That's a critical point. And that point alone debunks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=517.7s	517.7	 a lot of traditional dog training because again, like we were talking about before,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=521.8s	521.8	 when you build a strategy on top of a bad hypothesis, you're going to get pretty mediocre
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=526.6s	526.6	 results where you're going to be dependent on a very simplistic way of thinking about dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=531.8s	531.8	 and one that usually does not promote a bond between a person and a dog. Fortunately,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=537.2s	537.2	 most of you out there, I think agree with this point. What it is to show a dog that you're a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=542.0s	542.0	 good leader and a good parent to them is to lead by example, to focus on what they're doing right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=547.0s	547.0	 and to really go out of your way to encourage them to do things you want rather than going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=551.6s	551.6	 out of your way to correct them for things you don't want. It's not to say you don't correct,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=555.8s	555.8	 but with management of the environment and not letting them have access to everything in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=560.1s	560.1	 world, you are able to get a handle on things and really focus on the positive rather than the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=566.0s	566.0	 negative. And once you get a bunch of those successes in a row, you get a snowball effect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=570.1s	570.1	 and bam, you've got a dog that's listening to you no matter what. My advice to you, Heather,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=575.3s	575.3	 is to really focus on the relationship with your dog, focus on what your dog is doing right as much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=580.5s	580.5	 as possible rather than focusing on what they're doing wrong. Fetch is the best way to exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=586.6s	586.6	 most dogs, in my opinion, because it's very efficient. A dog can really get satisfied in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=591.2s	591.2	 just a few minutes with that. Whereas if you're relying on walks to exercise your dog, you usually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=595.5s	595.5	 need about one to two hours with a really high energy dog for them to start to feel a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=600.6s	600.6	 complete. And that can be unrealistic for a lot of people. If they'll play tug of war,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=604.9s	604.9	 you almost certainly have a fetch dog on your hands. You just need to teach them the rest of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=609.0s	609.0	 the rules over the next eight weeks or so. I'll have a link in the description that will show you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=614.1s	614.1	 how to teach your dog to play fetch. This question comes from Ivana. We have a 10 month old dachshund.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=619.4s	619.4	 She knows she has to go outside, yet she has accidents in the apartment. Only on the carpet,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=624.9s	624.9	 though, or on the elevator. We live on the 14th floor and elevators take a long time. So we've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=630.7s	630.7	 been trying to train her to go outside on potty pads, turf and paper, but we have not been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=636.2s	636.2	 successful. We even put her in her exercise pen with pads and she just won't go. When we give her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=642.5s	642.5	 the potty command and point to the pads or turf, she just ignores us. Please help. Now that's a good
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=648.8s	648.8	 question. It seems that dogs tend to favor different textures when they're doing their business. So our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=655.2s	655.2	 goal is to get dogs to favor grass, but you've hit the nail on the head here. Your dog prefers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=660.4s	660.4	 the texture of carpets. You say that your dog won't go while in the exercise pen. An exercise pen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=665.8s	665.8	 is one of those like metal gated areas that's kind of in a circle that you can put in your kitchen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=670.1s	670.1	 or something like that so that your dog has a little bit more room than a standard crate.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=674.4s	674.4	 Here's the thing though. Dogs kind of generalize small areas as their living space and most dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=680.3s	680.3	 don't like to do their business in their living space. There are challenges. I've been in your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=684.2s	684.2	 shoes before and I understand the problem. Since you know the location that your dog wants to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=689.3s	689.3	 their business in, take the puppy pads, put them over there where the carpet is, and I want you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=693.4s	693.4	 to think in your mind this is where you're going to encourage your dog to go. Now it's not reasonable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=697.6s	697.6	 to just expect them to go. You have to show them, which means you need to take a step back on your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=702.3s	702.3	 training. Taking a step back on training is a standard part of my training program. So we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=708.7s	708.7	 routinely have to do this when something isn't working. You have to just forget it, take a step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=713.2s	713.2	 back and start over and that's what I want you to do. Put a leash on your dog. Your dog should not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=717.8s	717.8	 have free run of the house. If you can't supervise your dog constantly, then have her in the exercise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=722.9s	722.9	 pen or have her in a crate or an otherwise puppy-proofed area in the house. Now your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=727.7s	727.7	 can walk around with the leash hanging from them. Just make sure that you can get to them if you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=732.7s	732.7	 that you know what I think she's thinking about doing her business. But I want you to walk her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=736.9s	736.9	 to the puppy pads as though you're going on a walk. Encourage her to go. Of course reward her heavily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=741.0s	741.0	 when she does go. Now it'll be slow going at first based on what you've said. It may make sense for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=745.3s	745.3	 you to consider having your dog go potty in the house on the pads as a more permanent strategy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=751.8s	751.8	 since it's fairly impractical to take her out every 30 to 40 minutes which is kind of what you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=756.6s	756.6	 want to do with a puppy or at least every hour or two if they're a little bit older. This question
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=761.0s	761.0	 comes from KJ. KJ says, how about training kids and pups? For example, I've got a 13 week old puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=768.6s	768.6	 that keeps biting kids shorts. Seems both the kids and the pup need to be trained but what's the best
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=774.5s	774.5	 way? You actually need to take the major step here of putting a leash on your dog for the next six to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=779.9s	779.9	 12 months because that's really what we should do when we're teaching a dog how to exist within
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=785.2s	785.2	 our house. We have to make sure we have control of them. Now I'm not talking about necessarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=788.5s	788.5	 holding the leash though having it tied to you is a good idea. But if you do want to give your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=792.6s	792.6	 a little bit more freedom you can let them run around with a leash hanging from them. But that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=796.5s	796.5	 allows you to much more easily get control of your dog, escort them away, put them into a sit, work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=801.0s	801.0	 with them and follow all of the other advice that I give you guys in my puppy biting videos. I'll have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=805.4s	805.4	 that playlist in the description for those of you who really just need to kind of go in order. Don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=810.1s	810.1	 you guys see that by having your dogs on leash, especially when you have young kids in the household,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=816.2s	816.2	 that it's much better to keep those habits of jumping and biting on kids from emerging in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=822.2s	822.2	 first place. The puppy biting stage is a temporary stage. It does need to be addressed. It doesn't go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=827.0s	827.0	 away automatically but it can be a lot easier when you prevent constant instances of unwanted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=834.3s	834.3	 behavior from occurring because the more time a dog performs a certain behavior, this goes both ways,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=839.8s	839.8	 the more likely they are to perform that behavior in the future. So if you can be trying to get lots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=845.6s	845.6	 of successes and be proactive and redirect your dog's attention on you and give them into a basic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=850.3s	850.3	 sit and look at me for example, then you're on the right track and you're creating the kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=854.3s	854.3	 habits that you really want your dog to have. You know we're going to be increasing our budget
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=860.6s	860.6	 on these videos in the coming months here because of our success on Patreon quite frankly. You guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=866.1s	866.1	 have been amazing on Patreon. Those really add up and allow us to get the equipment we need and hire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=870.9s	870.9	 the staff that we need to really make these fully featured videos that we make in a lot of these Q&A
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=876.6s	876.6	 videos like this for example. It's a good way to show your support for the dog training revolution,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=880.9s	880.9	 pay it forward so people who don't even have a dog yet will learn how to teach their dogs in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=885.6s	885.6	 future. Just think of it as a tip. I very much appreciate it. Click thumbs up, leave a comment,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=890.4s	890.4	 tell me what you thought of the video below. We covered a lot of interesting information today
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDmMgl6Ezhg&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=541&pp=iAQB&t=894.6s	894.6	 so I want to thank you guys for taking the time to watch the video and we'll see you next time. Bye!
