https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today's video is crowdfunded by you and sponsored by PepFlo.com.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=20.0s	20.0	 Today I'm going to introduce you guys to June the Jumper.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=22.7s	22.7	 Now June actually listens really well when it's just her and her family.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=26.3s	26.3	 It's just that when guests come over, she tends to get pretty excited.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=29.5s	29.5	 In today's video, I'm going to show you how to get your dog under control when guests come over.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=33.7s	33.7	 What is the one thing that you wish you could make more progress on with your dog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=37.4s	37.4	 Tell me in the comments below and we might make a video about it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=40.0s	40.0	 Click thumbs up to tell me you're enjoying the videos and of course, don't forget to subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=43.7s	43.7	 so you'll be notified every time we upload a new episode of the Dog Training Revolution.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 If you understand that the most effective type of training needs to be enjoyable for our dogs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 share this video. So far around 260 of you have made monthly contributions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=57.2s	57.2	 averaging between $5 and $10 a month.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=59.5s	59.5	 Those contributions have been tremendous in helping us do so much more with the videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=64.0s	64.0	 that we've been making lately. So thank you. Now let's go meet Britta, Chris and their dog, June.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=69.1s	69.1	 Chris, why don't you tell me a little bit about June?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=71.2s	71.2	 June is a rescue. Britta has a job where she drives around rural parishes a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=76.2s	76.2	 and she was visiting shelters and found June at the Plaquemines Animal Welfare Society.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=81.0s	81.0	 So June seemed like a good fit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=82.7s	82.7	 Britta, why don't you tell me some of the issues you're having with June right now?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=86.2s	86.2	 She's a really happy, energetic dog. So, you know, one of the main things is if she's meeting new
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=91.4s	91.4	 people, she's jumping all over them. She's kind of demanding when she wants to play and she doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=96.2s	96.2	 want to stop because she's just a year old. So, you know, it's hard to tell her no when she's always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=100.4s	100.4	 nipping at you and trying to keep you playing all the time. So those are the two main things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=105.2s	105.2	 that we're really struggling with right now. Yeah, I think that probably sounds familiar to a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=108.4s	108.4	 of you at home as well. You know, this sounds like a great dog to work with. Energetic dogs are my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=112.8s	112.8	 favorite dogs in the world because they're just so enthusiastic and so ready to get into learning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=118.5s	118.5	 Though that's sometimes at odds with teaching a dog to not jump because you want to be exciting,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=123.1s	123.1	 you want to be playful, you want to be happy, but that might also encourage the jumping. So we have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 to kind of strike a balance. That'll be part of our challenge today. I'd like to kind of see what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=131.6s	131.6	 we're working with. Is she allowed on the furniture? I see that. You know, this is normal, as you can see.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=139.9s	139.9	 We don't want to just come down hard on her right now for jumping. We haven't really introduced this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=144.1s	144.1	 concept to her, so we're going to be kind of tolerant, let her adjust to her surroundings.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=149.0s	149.0	 Usually a good way to reduce jumping like this when you're company. She's very vocal, is to have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=154.5s	154.5	 them on a leash. So I think we should put her on a leash right now. Definitely. It's super common for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=158.5s	158.5	 dogs to jump, especially friendly dogs, because dogs like to greet us at the face. They're trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=162.8s	162.8	 to get up and say hello to us and give us lots of kisses. So that is the reason most dogs jump.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=167.2s	167.2	 PepFlo.com has and continues to be an incredibly valuable partner to the dog training revolution.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=171.4s	171.4	 I don't know how many of you have tried having your dog food auto shipped by PepFlo.com to your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=176.2s	176.2	 house, but it makes your life incredibly easy. PepFlo will allow you to set up any time increment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=181.2s	181.2	 you want between every two and 16 weeks to have food automatically shipped to your house. Now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=186.6s	186.6	 if something changes or you're going out of town or you just want to edit that time period,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=190.7s	190.7	 you can do that anytime. Or if you see, you know what, it's not working for me, you can cancel it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=195.5s	195.5	 You must know by now that PepFlo.com has almost every brand of dog food imaginable. Also, their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=200.9s	200.9	 prices are very good. I think you'll be surprised when you see that. You'll be supporting the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=205.0s	205.0	 training revolution as well. So visit PepFlo.com slash Zach George and enter code Zach20 to get 20%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=212.8s	212.8	 off of your first purchase. You can see that June is ready to get into training now, I think.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=218.8s	218.8	 This is an issue, guys. Before we can reasonably expect our dog food to be ready to go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=224.0s	224.0	 reasonably expect our dogs to listen to us. We have to be able to get their eyes on us,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=228.1s	228.1	 especially when they're really distracted. Now, remember, unlike traditional dog training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=232.1s	232.1	 which focuses on jerking the leash to get our dog's attention on us, we're going to focus on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=236.6s	236.6	 a more potent form of communication, which is getting that eye contact. Now, I know you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=241.0s	241.0	 watch my videos and I know you've worked a little bit with Look At Me. I was hoping you can kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=245.6s	245.6	 demonstrate that she's capable of looking at you in the eyes. How do you feel about that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=248.6s	248.6	 Sure. It's okay to hold up a treat right now because she is so distracted. I'm here. But if
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=252.6s	252.6	 we can just get her eyes on you in any way while she sits, awesome. Look at me. Good. Just humor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=259.6s	259.6	 me here. Do you think you could show me if June can look at you without you holding the treat up?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=263.5s	263.5	 In other words, doing something like this and then treating her? Yeah, let's get a shot. Hey, June,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=267.8s	267.8	 sit. Look at me. Great. Really good. So notice the difference here. She's able to say, look at me and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=274.1s	274.1	 then treat rather than simply holding a treat up. The best time to address any unwanted behavior is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=279.2s	279.2	 before it occurs. So in this case with jumping, June very clearly foreshadows before she's about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=284.2s	284.2	 to jump. You're able to tell before she jumps, aren't you? Yeah. That is our cue to get our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=288.8s	288.8	 dog's eyes on us and put them into a sit-stay. Have you taught her sit-stay? Stay. Good girl.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=296.0s	296.0	 We have the two ingredients to teaching her not to jump now, which are stay and look at me. I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=300.5s	300.5	 have great videos in the description that will show you how to teach those things to your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=304.4s	304.4	 if you haven't already, but I think we're ready to get serious about training. Sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=308.6s	308.6	 Stay. And then if you see she's about to jump, interrupt, even if it's on you at this case.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=313.2s	313.2	 Good. Hey, Enver. No, no. Good. Put her back into a sit. Sit. Good. Sit. Good. And she's still looking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=319.2s	319.2	 at you. There's no need to cue her to look at you yet. That'll come later. Very good. And did you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=324.8s	324.8	 reward her? No. Okay. Yeah, that's okay. We want to reward really generously in the beginning when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=329.6s	329.6	 introducing new concepts. The harder it is, the more we need to reward. That will change later,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=334.8s	334.8	 but it's much more important right now to create the habit than it is to get the treats out of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=338.5s	338.5	 equation right now. Rewarding those little moments when your dog holds that sit and doesn't jump is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=343.5s	343.5	 what we have to do when we're teaching this, because right now she's got this habit of jumping. We
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=347.5s	347.5	 can't expect her to just get out of the habit of jumping just like that. So it takes a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=351.5s	351.5	 repetition, a lot of practice, and a cool head by you. Now we're going to make matters a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=356.6s	356.6	 more challenging for her. I've got this squeaky toy. Stay. Hey, what's up? Hi. Okay. All right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=363.8s	363.8	 So right there, we see that she gets excited with the toy. What dog wouldn't? Before she jumps this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=368.0s	368.0	 time, I want you to do a really good look at me. Do anything you can to get her eyes on you. Does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=372.5s	372.5	 that make sense? Yep. Stay. All right. So I'm going to- Look at me. See that? The second I squeak,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=376.8s	376.8	 you got those eyes right back on her. That's what you have to get good at. Stay. This is a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=381.5s	381.5	 distracting toy. I mean, amazing. Really, really good. If your dog does jump on your guest and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=389.5s	389.5	 your guest isn't really cooperative and moving away, you've got to create a barrier and come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=394.3s	394.3	 over here and say, stay. You can't expect your guest to teach your dog. So if she jumps on me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=399.1s	399.1	 it's really on you to intervene and say, no, I want you to sit and stay, no matter how much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=404.0s	404.0	 I'm encouraging her to jump. If your dog jumps on you as opposed to other guests, it's important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=408.9s	408.9	 to not give them a place to land. So when they start to jump, get out of the way, immediately
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=413.2s	413.2	 put them into a sit, stay, and reward generously on even the smallest progress at first, gradually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=420.0s	420.0	 asking for a little bit more time and good behavior. She has this habit of jumping right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=424.0s	424.0	 after you give her the treat, right? Yep. After praise, usually. All right. So, and then, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=428.3s	428.3	 there's a time for that. That's why we want to be understanding. Sometimes if our dog really breaks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=432.4s	432.4	 new ground on something else, we'll be tolerant of the jumping, but not now. Yes. Good. Really good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=439.8s	439.8	 Good. Nice work. Put her into a sit. Sit. Good. Make her go five seconds. Stay. Five, four, three,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=448.3s	448.3	 two, one. Okay. Good. And it's important that the emphasis of our training be on what we like our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=454.3s	454.3	 dogs doing. You know, it's very natural for us as people that when our dog jumps on us, we tend to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=458.8s	458.8	 let them know, no, I don't like that bad dog. But it's much more important to let them know what you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=463.9s	463.9	 do like, because they're much more likely to respond. I mean, thinking about being a kid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=468.0s	468.0	 in grade school, did you like the teacher who acknowledged the good things you did? Or did you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=472.4s	472.4	 like the teacher who was always getting on you for every little mistake? Think like that. If you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=477.6s	477.6	 you have company coming over, get your dog tired before they get there. The best way to do that is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=483.2s	483.2	 to play five to 20 minutes of fetch in the backyard or in nearby park. Have them on a leash the moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=488.6s	488.6	 company walks in the door if you want your dog out with you. But be warned, you'll need to give 100%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=493.4s	493.4	 of your attention to your dog to enforce a sit, stay, because they're going to be very amped up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=497.7s	497.7	 They're going to be very excited. If you're unwilling to have them on a leash, and you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=502.7s	502.7	 to visit with your company, I would advise you to have your dog in another room until you guys have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=506.8s	506.8	 all settled and then bring your dog out. I really want to thank you guys for giving me the privilege
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=512.8s	512.8	 of doing what I love more than anything, which is showing you and others how to teach their dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=517.8s	517.8	 And together with other like minded trainers, we really are changing the way people are teaching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=522.2s	522.2	 their dogs. Remember that when you contribute $10 or more per month, I will send you a signed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=527.2s	527.2	 frisbee. We have lots of different colors and I'll also give you a clicker right here, which is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=531.6s	531.6	 pretty awesome too. If you guys enjoyed this video, click thumbs up. Also, don't forget to subscribe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=535.9s	535.9	 to my channel so you'll be notified every time I upload a new episode. Tell me what you need help
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=540.8s	540.8	 with in the comments below and maybe we'll make a video about it. You guys did absolutely terrific.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=545.3s	545.3	 I appreciate everything. Yeah. Thank you so much. June is awesome. You're really good trainers.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=549.7s	549.7	 I hope you guys enjoyed the video. Here are some relevant videos to this lesson. Teaching your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=554.0s	554.0	 to look at you is essential if you ever want to have them listen to you when they're distracted.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=558.4s	558.4	 Plus, I guarantee you're going to love that video. The single most important skill that all dogs need
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=563.6s	563.6	 to know is stay. Don't settle on this one. I have an amazing video on how to teach your dog to stop
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=569.2s	569.2	 jumping with tons of different examples from one of my classes. How to teach your dog to swim isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=574.0s	574.0	 really relevant to this lesson, but it was a super fun one. All right, enjoy and I'll see you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzUiQIQQLzI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=568&pp=iAQB&t=579.1s	579.1	 next time.
