https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 How often do you guys exercise your dogs? Daily, a few times a week, or not really very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=6.6s	6.6	 much at all. One of the huge benefits to filming my dog training classes is that we are able
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=11.7s	11.7	 to see individual dogs and how they react. Mojo is one of our high achieving dogs in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=16.9s	16.9	 the class. He's been doing really well. Only five months old and the whole family has been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=20.3s	20.3	 involved with him so that should be fun. Boomer, the Border Collie, will be in this class as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=23.9s	23.9	 well. And boy, talk about a high energy Border Collie. As you know, I have three of them myself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=28.2s	28.2	 so I very much understand the stereotypical Border Collie and that, Boomer, is as long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=33.8s	33.8	 as they play fetch, they should be fine. Did you play fetch before you got here today?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=37.8s	37.8	 Boomer's dad goes on to explain to me that he had to work that morning and that he was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=41.0s	41.0	 unable to get his dog exercise. Look, that's totally valid. I tell people with high energy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=46.2s	46.2	 dogs that they should play fetch with them before they come to class to get that edge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=49.1s	49.1	 off and with no breed is that more true than with a Border Collie. But we as people have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=54.5s	54.5	 got to understand that a dog with a lot of pent up energy is very difficult to work with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=59.9s	59.9	 on obedience. Boomer's a brilliant dog but right now just very, very high strung. If
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=64.7s	64.7	 you've got a bunch of people living in your house, dog training has to be a family affair.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=69.5s	69.5	 It's important that everyone can communicate with a dog. That's why you should involve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=72.3s	72.3	 the whole family with dog training. And I mean, look how well they're doing this. Mojo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=76.7s	76.7	 is only five months old. He's a big five months, isn't he? Stay should be one of the very first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=81.6s	81.6	 things we teach our dog and we should teach it very delicately and prioritize it very early on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=87.2s	87.2	 Take your time and teach it in small bits, but make sure you do it right. There's a couple of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=92.8s	92.8	 things I'm doing here. A, I'm going for a very short period of time. B, my training bubble is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=97.6s	97.6	 still very nice and tight. I'm not way up here with a dog that's way down here. Stay. Notice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=103.2s	103.2	 my eye contact here. Notice the stop sign. Stay. One, two, three. Does that make sense to everybody?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=111.9s	111.9	 Very basic. This is where it all starts. The reason we start so basic with stay is we want it to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=117.4s	117.4	 so tight and so reliable. It is the bedrock of obedience training. Boy, this is a tough one,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=123.3s	123.3	 isn't it? Loosely shwocking. Dogs walk fast. We are slow compared to dogs. Nonetheless, they need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=130.1s	130.1	 learn to do it, but you also need to understand that you've got to be patient. When you're walking,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=134.6s	134.6	 you don't want to go on a five-mile walk when teaching this. And look, if I'm going to put you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=138.0s	138.0	 on a leash and we're going to walk, you've got to pay attention to me. When that head is like straight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=141.8s	141.8	 ahead and it's not checking in with you from time to time, you've lost them and you've got to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=145.7s	145.7	 constantly be changing directions on them for the time being. How's Boomer doing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=150.5s	150.5	 We need to anticipate when our dogs are about to pull. Remember, the best time to address
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=155.5s	155.5	 unwanted behavior, in this case, pulling on a leash, is right before it occurs. Remember,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=162.0s	162.0	 dogs don't hide their intentions well. Dogs almost always foreshadow when they are about to pull,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=167.5s	167.5	 and you, as their main person in their life, can read them better than anybody. When you see that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=173.2s	173.2	 pulling is about to happen, you are changing directions instantly to let them know, look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=178.0s	178.0	 me. Yes, this way. Good. I'm going to abruptly change directions. Often right now. This way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=182.7s	182.7	 Even though Boomer is a bit wound up, you can still get through to an unexercised hyper dog,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=188.1s	188.1	 as long as you keep your training fast-paced and engaging. But I've got to tell you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=193.3s	193.3	 in my own experience, it takes a lot of practice to work with a dog like this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=197.8s	197.8	 and you really have to know what you're doing. You can bypass this difficulty by simply getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=202.9s	202.9	 your dog tired before teaching them something like this. If you can preempt the pulling, that's better.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=207.5s	207.5	 Yes. Uh-uh. This way. Come on. This way. Come on. Let's walk. Good. This way. That's it. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=218.4s	218.4	 what I like to see. Good. This way. This way. Yes. Very good. I mean, did you catch that? That was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=226.3s	226.3	 very fast moving. Even though Mojo is wearing a head collar here, we're not relying on it at all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=231.5s	231.5	 to teach him how to walk properly on a leash. What we're trying to do is teach him to look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=236.2s	236.2	 us while we walk. We want our dogs checking in with us to see where the walk is headed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=241.2s	241.2	 We're not walking where they want. We want them to walk where we want. And sometimes it involves us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=245.6s	245.6	 getting a little low to really get their attention. Yes. Good. This way. Good. This way. And you should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=251.9s	251.9	 be rewarding periodically. Again, today's question is, how often do you exercise your dog daily,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=257.2s	257.2	 semi-weekly, or not very much at all? Let me know in the comments below. Click thumbs up if you like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=261.8s	261.8	 the video and share my videos on Facebook. Thanks again, guys, and we'll see you in the next video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DkxzP4E-QrI&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=626&pp=iAQB&t=266.8s	266.8	 Bye.
