https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Today I'm going to show you how to throw a frisbee to your dog. Now if you already have a dog that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=3.9s	3.9	 likes to play fetch with a ball or something like that, you're a step ahead of the game. There are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=7.8s	7.8	 a lot of good reasons to teach our dogs frisbee. I mean, number one, it keeps them in good shape.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=12.5s	12.5	 Secondly, it's fun to play. They enjoy it better. And third, it just looks cool. There's also three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=17.7s	17.7	 things to remember when throwing a frisbee. Your grip, the rotation of the frisbee, and the release
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=23.1s	23.1	 point. I'm going to show you how to do all those things real quick right now. Just remember to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 patient when doing this. You're not going to do it overnight, but if you practice at it, you'll be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=30.5s	30.5	 throwing a frisbee like a pro in no time. I'm going to show you how to throw just a basic backhand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=35.0s	35.0	 frisbee throw right now with the proper grip. Now I'll tell you right off the bat, I have two major
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=39.4s	39.4	 grips that I like to use when doing a basic backhand. This is how probably 99% of people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=44.3s	44.3	 at least in the frisbee dog world, throw a basic backhand. And it's good. It's not a bad way to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=49.5s	49.5	 throw. I'm holding it like this. I am not holding it like this. Do you see that? I've got my index
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=55.8s	55.8	 finger here. This is not the way to do it. Really common mistake. Just putting your index finger
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=61.1s	61.1	 right there on the inner edge will help you a great deal. The reason is it gives the frisbee
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=66.2s	66.2	 a point to launch off of your index finger so it spins a bit more. They're being so good. Look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=70.9s	70.9	 them. They're all waiting very patiently to play frisbee. We're going to play in just a little bit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=75.9s	75.9	 but right now I need you guys to stay. All right? You're being very good. So what I do though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=80.2s	80.2	 since I've kind of mastered throwing a frisbee pretty well, and I got to tell you straight up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=85.3s	85.3	 right now, just about everyone in the world will say, never throw a frisbee that way. It's wrong,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=89.5s	89.5	 but I'm going to explain why I like throwing it. This is the grip that I use to throw it far.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=94.3s	94.3	 I mean, I just, I grabbed the thing like this, but remember that's because I've got the perfect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=98.3s	98.3	 release point, internalized, memorized. But the reason this helps is that when you throw it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=104.3s	104.3	 and you release it off all four fingers, you probably get 30% more rotation. The faster this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=109.7s	109.7	 thing is spinning, the farther it's going to go. We've got the grip down. We know we want to rotate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=113.6s	113.6	 it a lot. Now let's talk about the release point and the angle of the frisbee. The natural tendency,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=118.9s	118.9	 if you haven't thrown before, is to release it flat. You know, in other words, just to kind of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=124.0s	124.0	 throw it straight. But remember, it's barely light compared to the wind and everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=128.3s	128.3	 So ideally, if you can release it at an angle right there, what that's going to do is that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=135.0s	135.0	 going to at first make it curve. That's what we're trying to get the frisbee to do in our head.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=139.1s	139.1	 And the reason that is, you'll find that once you start snapping it, once you start getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=143.2s	143.2	 that release point perfect, it's rotating, it's going to straighten out beautifully and go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=146.9s	146.9	 perfectly straight. If you start getting really good at releasing it perfectly and you're throwing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=151.0s	151.0	 it horizontal, it's just going to veer off to the right. Don't feel like you've got to throw to your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=154.6s	154.6	 dog every time that you want to practice frisbee. Just get a stack of frisbees and throw them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=158.5s	158.5	 If you're wondering, by the way, these are Nylabone frisbees. You can get them at your local pet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=161.6s	161.6	 supply store. I like working with them. They have a nice weight to them. They're hard to puncture.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=165.5s	165.5	 So check them out. Made by Nylabone. Good frisbees. So that's just a quick lesson on how you throw a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=170.0s	170.0	 frisbee. If you like this video, make sure you like it, leave a comment, and maybe I'll make more.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=174.5s	174.5	 Let your friends know. Post it on Facebook. And last of all, like me on Facebook,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=179.0s	179.0	 facebook.com slash The Zach George. And of course, subscribe to my videos as well. Okay. Talk to you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_I1Swnm_Tc&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=655&pp=iAQB&t=185.1s	185.1	 later. Bye.
