https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I'm Zach George. I'm a dog trainer and I don't use intentional physical aversive methods.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=4.6s	4.6	 My wife Bri and I are raising and training our two young dogs and showing you how we teach them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=9.7s	9.7	 everything. If you're one of those people who has a dog and they don't listen to you off leash and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=13.2s	13.2	 you want to know how to get there, today's video will help. We're going to get into the details of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=17.0s	17.0	 walking that line between letting your dog do things that are natural and important for them to do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=22.2s	22.2	 and getting them to listen to you when you need them to. There's two things you can do every single
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=26.8s	26.8	 day that will work your dog's brain even when you're busy. Number one, a snuffle mat. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=31.4s	31.4	 stash treats under all these little flaps. Your dog can smell those treats but they're sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=36.0s	36.0	 challenging to get out. These are chicken licking good popcorn toppers I'm putting in here. You can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 see all the layers here. I'm going to put some kibble throughout here. This is a pretty darn cool
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=43.9s	43.9	 snuffle mat. There's so many treats in there. Look how they're having to use their olfactory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=47.4s	47.4	 system in their brain to really process right now. It's such a fun way to see our dog's superpower
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=52.6s	52.6	 too. Every one of those treats is gone. Number two, stuffed toys. Smell this. Doesn't that smell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=58.1s	58.1	 amazing? Yeah. Can humans eat it? Yeah sure. It's a little tiny bit sweet. I'd eat that. This particular
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=63.1s	63.1	 recipe is a pumpkin spice mix. These are frozen so they last longer. This is for those times between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=68.4s	68.4	 meals when you're really busy and your dog definitely needs some mental stimulation. Bark has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=72.8s	72.8	 entered dog food in a completely different way than I've seen it done before because you can optimize
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=77.5s	77.5	 the food for your specific dog but their approach to dog food goes way beyond just keeping your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=82.1s	82.1	 alive. They have so many unique accessories and products in one place designed to make your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=87.5s	87.5	 enjoy eating and help them grow smarter in the process. You don't even have to do a subscription
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=91.8s	91.8	 for the dog food or anything. You can do a one-time purchase and see what your dog thinks. They're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=95.3s	95.3	 giving you 35% off of your entire purchase no matter what it is you buy from them. Use my special
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=101.3s	101.3	 code, ZACHGEORGE35. I'll have that code and all the details below. Training dogs in new places
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=106.5s	106.5	 is a good strategy if you generally want your dog to listen to you when you go to new places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=112.2s	112.2	 Veronica needs exercise. And touring North America has forced us to seek out new places to teach our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=117.5s	117.5	 dogs. Okay well this is interesting. And as we travel we don't always have a safe backyard to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=123.4s	123.4	 play in. It's like a sunken frisbee field that's kind of almost an extra barrier of protection.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=128.5s	128.5	 Bree went out into the wild to find an acceptable place to spend some quality training time with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=133.1s	133.1	 our dogs. It's got a fence all the way around. The first thing we do is let our dogs sniff around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=137.8s	137.8	 and explore. Pretty much immediately Bree noticed some kids sledding down a hill in the distance.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=143.0s	143.0	 And Veronica appeared to find this kind of odd. There's more than one option in this situation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=150.5s	150.5	 Number one you could decide to just create some distance. Allow your dog to take in the kids at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=154.8s	154.8	 greater distance where your dog doesn't feel so overwhelmed. Or you could maybe give it a minute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=158.6s	158.6	 or two and see if your dog calms down as they observe the kids. But Bree chooses to take the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=163.0s	163.0	 redirection route to see if she can get Veronica interested in playing with frisbee.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=172.3s	172.3	 I think there's a couple of benefits to going with redirection in this case.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=175.8s	175.8	 Number one you get your dog doing a thing that has many steps to it like fetch. They're chasing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=181.4s	181.4	 they're picking it up, they're bringing it back, they're paying attention to you. You have distance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=185.0s	185.0	 between you and your dog. So if they do perform a quality fetch you have this history you're now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=190.6s	190.6	 creating of hey you're listening to me from farther away while you're in an excited state
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=195.0s	195.0	 of mind. And so it's a good way to rehearse real world distractions that might emerge later
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=199.3s	199.3	 in their life. These are the transitional moments that are so hard to capture when you're making
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=203.5s	203.5	 dog training content like we do. So I love it when we get great examples like this. Come on that was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=208.7s	208.7	 a pretty significant outburst. You're literally seeing the learning unfold. Hey there's that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=213.7s	213.7	 thing over there I want to go chase it but my mom is calling me so I'll go to her. And so you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=218.5s	218.5	 seeing her work out the patterns until ultimately that gets refined and we get that straight line
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=223.2s	223.2	 we're looking for. Come on come on oh that was a really good one. She saw them sledding right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=227.4s	227.4	 towards her and she kept coming to me instead. I might have to bring Zach and Inertia back here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=233.0s	233.0	 I had to see this magical dog training field that Bree had discovered. I love places like this to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=237.5s	237.5	 continue to test and prove off-leash reliability with inertia. It's important to regularly test
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=242.9s	242.9	 and remind our dogs hey this is how we behave when we're in places like this. Since this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=247.0s	247.0	 Inertia's first time ever being at this location it is fence but she doesn't know that. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=252.6s	252.6	 how I've been able to build confidence over time that she's going to listen to me in new places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=258.4s	258.4	 Come see how she's looking at something right there. She was looking up at here probably some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=262.2s	262.2	 people or dog walking by. I don't know about you guys but this is what I consider true off-leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=266.5s	266.5	 training really being methodical and going through the steps to make sure you're laying a strong
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=270.1s	270.1	 foundation so your dog knows how to listen to you moving forward. And you can see like she's aware
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=274.6s	274.6	 that she's in a brand new place so she's glancing around so I'm trying to keep her focused on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=278.6s	278.6	 game because there will be times when we're in a brand new place where I don't have the option to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=282.7s	282.7	 let her explore and I need her focused. That's the huge benefit of new environments even as your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=287.5s	287.5	 gets into the more intermediate to advanced stages of training and off-leash training and so on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=291.8s	291.8	 I'm having her stay it's a good opportunity to practice stay. Come!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=299.0s	299.0	 It's also a good idea to put a long lead. I often do this with my own dogs when I'm in public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=303.2s	303.2	 environments just for peace of mind for any outlier events that might happen that I don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=307.0s	307.0	 predict. This is how we can train our dogs to listen to us without having to rely on something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=310.8s	310.8	 like an electric collar for example. See she's struggling with the scents there but makes the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=315.8s	315.8	 decision to come back. We have a young person here with a remote aircraft. I've never seen how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=321.5s	321.5	 inertia behaves around a remote control airplane. We have a young man with an airplane. It's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=326.8s	326.8	 variable change in the environment. Inertia wants to play right now but I don't know how she's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=330.7s	330.7	 to react to that electronic sound which I'm assuming. I'm assuming it flies. There's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=335.2s	335.2	 airplane. Now she's reacting. See it flying around up there. Good girl Inertia. Given that there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=343.2s	343.2	 this aircraft occupying the airspace above us and it's in our immediate area, combined with the fact
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=348.1s	348.1	 that I have a historically curious dog who's intrigued by new things, I choose to play it safe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=353.2s	353.2	 I put her on a leash at first to make sure that she doesn't have a reaction. Good. I'm confident.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=358.2s	358.2	 I test her off leash with this distraction and there we have it. I mean that's a pretty neutral
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=362.6s	362.6	 response and that's exactly what I was hoping for. So a way that I can further prove her. Will she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=367.2s	367.2	 play frisbee? Will she listen to other requests that I give her while this plane continues to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=371.4s	371.4	 fly around? So Inertia is doing a great job. We have this young man over here with his airplane.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=375.7s	375.7	 Inertia doing her thing, staying nice and focused. We like to see that. I do this pretty regularly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=381.7s	381.7	 with her to keep her well adjusted in public and just taking small steps. There was a time when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=387.0s	387.0	 this would have been very challenging for her. Looks like she's very focused on me right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=391.4s	391.4	 Come around listening to me the first time. Go. I'm gonna keep my throws short. See how methodical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=398.3s	398.3	 we are when there's a change in a variable. Perfect. Good girl. Take a break. What you just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=403.1s	403.1	 saw was one type of training where you kind of address issues as they come up. You do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=407.0s	407.0	 desensitizing. You condition your dog. You proof and test things that your dog's already learned.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=411.9s	411.9	 But there are other types of training sessions where you're focused directly on teaching your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=415.8s	415.8	 dog something brand new. Immediately more than I even realized, Veronica is like, what on earth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=421.9s	421.9	 is this? You can see the sea lions poking their heads up. You can see these giant Pacific Ocean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=427.6s	427.6	 waves. That is not lost on her. This is not business as usual to Veronica. Veronica is like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=433.3s	433.3	 wait a minute. Is this still planet earth or is this something else? She's offering a sit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=438.5s	438.5	 Yes. And a shake. Yeah. She's throwing up that foot there saying this works for me to get what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=443.6s	443.6	 I want sometimes. Yes. So sit. Good. Down. Yes. Down's looking good. Right now when she goes into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=453.2s	453.2	 that stand, you can see how she moves around really easily. I want her a lot more fixed to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=458.2s	458.2	 ground when we do stand. Good. Stand. Yes. Yes. See how she's confused a little between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=471.0s	471.0	 stand and sit. Yep. That makes sense. I want to set her up for success. I'm going to lure her
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=476.2s	476.2	 right there and I'm letting her nibble on this treat right now. Yes. I'm pulling it away before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=481.3s	481.3	 she has a chance to advance. Yes. See that? If I do that and I go too slow, she's just going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=487.2s	487.2	 follow it. I'm trying to get her brain to realize that yes, not moving is what yes gets the treat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=494.9s	494.9	 See, I'm not correcting her when she moves. I'm keeping her from moving in the first place.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=499.2s	499.2	 That's the part that requires some skill and some practice on your part. But look, I'm just doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=503.7s	503.7	 that. Yes. Now watch. Let me see if I can slow down that motion. Yes. That was a little bit slower.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=508.9s	508.9	 Not much, but a little bit. Now see how we're not having to do this, this, this. Yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=516.1s	516.1	 Yes. And this is the kind of thing we want to work on. 10, 20, 30 seconds a day. And if you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=520.2s	520.2	 feeling really bold, give it two minutes. We made our way down to the beach to give the dog some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=524.5s	524.5	 recreation. Inertia loves playing fetch on sand and on the beach. I can't even tell you how much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=529.8s	529.8	 she loves it. Allowing inertia to run and play like this and do something as natural as running
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=534.5s	534.5	 and chasing and biting something to fulfill her inner dog instincts in acceptable ways.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=539.8s	539.8	 In this environment where we're playing fetch, you can see that inertia is in a totally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=543.4s	543.4	 uncontrolled environment. If she were to run away, I would not be able to chase her down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=547.4s	547.4	 but I'm very confident in the communication that we build that she'll stay focused on me and come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=551.5s	551.5	 to me when I call it. But since I'm in public, I do put the flexi back on her while we continue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=555.8s	555.8	 to walk. I think retractable leashes are good to use with a dog that's pretty well trained. It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=560.3s	560.3	 allows you to give them a lot of area to roam and it lets other people know, Hey, my dog is leashed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=564.9s	564.9	 and under control. So you're not making members of the public uncomfortable that your dog is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=569.0s	569.0	 unleashed. Free walks like this are a huge part of our dog training culture in our family. We
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=575.4s	575.4	 love to do this virtually every single day, wherever we are, weather permitting. When you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=579.8s	579.8	 start looking at raising and training a dog, it's a total experience, right? We're not just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=583.4s	583.4	 focused on teaching these basic behaviors. We want to make sure that our dogs are having those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=587.3s	587.3	 natural experiences that they crave and require with them in harmony like that. It's a lot easier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=592.7s	592.7	 to teach them and they're much more likely to be well behaved during walks like this too. I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=597.7s	597.7	 to regularly test behaviors, just a handful of times like come when called or heel. And she's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=603.8s	603.8	 pretty immersed in her environment right now by doing this when they're really immersed in their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=608.4s	608.4	 walk. It's a good way just to make sure that we always have that great communication between each
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=612.8s	612.8	 other inertia come and if inertia feels like it, we'll throw in some heel training. So there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=618.5s	618.5	 value and doing spontaneous training like this for very short periods of time, because you don't want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=623.8s	623.8	 to burn out your dog on their free walk while they're having a good time. But yet you also want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=628.3s	628.3	 let them know, Hey, there are going to be times when you are interested in your environment that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=631.8s	631.8	 I still want you to listen to me on things like heel. And lately we have some new people who have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=636.6s	636.6	 made it clear they think I cannot train dogs. So I am obliged to show you my dog listening to me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=643.0s	643.0	 off leash in an uncontrolled environment to prove that I can train my own dog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=647.9s	647.9	 This is what it's come to. If you're wondering how I taught my dog to do this without the use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=652.0s	652.0	 of aversives or what we call physical punishments, the answer is by being really consistent and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=656.6s	656.6	 practicing here and there, breaking lessons down into more manageable bits. When I found myself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=661.2s	661.2	 asking too much of my dog and you know, I use the same workflow that one might use if they were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=666.4s	666.4	 teaching a child to walk right next to them. If you ever get confused, ask yourself, what would you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=671.1s	671.1	 do if you needed to teach a three year old child how to do the same thing? Well, number one, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=675.3s	675.3	 would definitely hold their hand at first, you would make sure they understood how to stay near
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=679.5s	679.5	 you then in shorter bits, you might let go of their hand as they get older. And of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=683.7s	683.7	 you're making sure your environment is managed at all times. If it's risky, we don't let go of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=688.4s	688.4	 them. And as kids get older, they learn that it's appropriate to stay near you here, the bike is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=693.0s	693.0	 coming out of habit, I put inertia on the other side really love the switch when I'm doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=697.1s	697.1	 training like this because it really allows me to quickly get her on one side or the other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=701.4s	701.4	 You can see how I've trained all of this in past videos.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=709.4s	709.4	 And there's her signature backstall trick.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=714.0s	714.0	 Imagine that your dog is running towards a busy road and you need them to stay frisbee is one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=718.6s	718.6	 of her favorite activities. And I find this to be one of many ways to prove or practice the emergency
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=725.1s	725.1	 stay after all, she's clearly demonstrated that she loves pursuing this low flying object and being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=731.1s	731.1	 able to interrupt our dog when their attention is so intensely focused is what we should be striving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=736.6s	736.6	 for. This could literally save a dog's life. Now, of course, I started small with all of this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=754.4s	754.4	 But each thing builds upon the next and if you really take care to go at your dog's pace and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=760.0s	760.0	 avoid rushing the process, you'll find that foundation becomes pretty reliable. All of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=765.0s	765.0	 offleash training I've done with inertia has been taught without the use of any physical punishments,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=769.8s	769.8	 no color required. I really want to fake her out here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=786.8s	786.8	 TikTok, Instagram, you know, you can, I don't know what to say about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=790.7s	790.7	 talking Instagram because it is just taken on a life of its own lately. Click thumbs up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=794.7s	794.7	 subscribe. You guys are about getting real over there. That's cool. I'm there for it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=798.5s	798.5	 Get 35% off your entire first order of food, treats and other items from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YHaHn37YrA&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=73&pp=iAQB&t=802.7s	802.7	 bark food when you use my special code. Zach George 35 links below.
