https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 I'm Zach George. I'm a professional dog trainer. I don't use choke prong or electric collars,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=6.1s	6.1	 and we are on a mission to show you how we train our dogs everything. If we have learned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=11.3s	11.3	 anything about dog training, it is that dogs require a comprehensive approach. We've got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=16.1s	16.1	 to take into account their entire experience. I want to give you three powerful reasons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=20.6s	20.6	 how giving your dog something new can benefit both of you. Reason number one, it can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=24.8s	24.8	 a long way to preventing destructive behavior. New and unique toys can help your dog establish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=29.9s	29.9	 problem solving skills. And number three, it can improve their focus and that drive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=34.6s	34.6	 Super Chewer toys are for those dogs who are so tough on toys. The Super Chewer box is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=38.5s	38.5	 notably heavier. Yeah, I don't think a dog is going to destroy this. Bark Box toys are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=42.2s	42.2	 for dogs who are tough on toys, but maybe not quite as tough. I will forever be impressed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=46.3s	46.3	 by their attention to detail on all of these toys. They're going to get those high value
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=50.0s	50.0	 top notch treats. These are awesome on walks. We put some peanut butter on this. When life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=54.0s	54.0	 gets busy, having something like this to go to is wonderful. All of you can get a free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=58.4s	58.4	 extra box when you sign up at barkbox.com slash dog training or super chewer.com slash dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=63.1s	63.1	 training. I'll have a link below. In today's episode, Veronica is about nine months old
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=68.0s	68.0	 and she's about to have a very novel first time experience. We're going to take Veronica
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=72.7s	72.7	 on a walk in a brand new place. Our main objective today is exposure to a bustling city. We've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=77.7s	77.7	 got our first major distraction of the day. We've got a dog straight ahead there. We have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=81.8s	81.8	 dogs over here. That sometimes presents a challenge. Four foot leash clipped to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=87.2s	87.2	 We're always extra vigilant in places like this. Like here you go. Here's two off leash
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=91.1s	91.1	 dogs and they're doing okay. We always want to be aware of them. These dogs seem very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=95.0s	95.0	 well behaved and under control, but don't want to assume too much. Cities have a lot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=99.6s	99.6	 of variables. It's going to be impossible to focus on things that I cannot control. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=103.8s	103.8	 I'm going to focus on what we can control. Bree has picked up Veronica. No reaction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=109.8s	109.8	 There's no point in having the dogs cross at close range. Even if she's being perfect,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=115.1s	115.1	 you don't know every dog in the world. You don't know how they're going to react. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=119.1s	119.1	 a nice plus of having a small dog. When I go to a city with a dog, I'm not letting my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=123.0s	123.0	 dog come into contact with other dogs. There's a time and a place for that. But when we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=127.0s	127.0	 out on a venture like this, our dog safety is always the first consideration. One of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=131.8s	131.8	 kind of the silly myths in training dogs is that picking up dogs somehow makes them overly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=137.8s	137.8	 dependent on you. It's a form of coddling them. I've never really bought into that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=142.2s	142.2	 I don't really get it. Well, it's management, not training, right? Picking her up so she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=146.6s	146.6	 doesn't bark isn't the same as teaching her not to bark. It's also not rewarding her for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=151.2s	151.2	 something. But in this case, we're going to fall back on management because Veronica
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=154.4s	154.4	 does not yet know the skill of staying right by our side while we pass dogs that she doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=158.9s	158.9	 know at close range in a brand new city that she's never been to. I don't know, being so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=163.1s	163.1	 into dog training, I find myself looking at people who train dogs in public and just trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=168.2s	168.2	 to see what I can learn from them. Look at these guys. We see that they've got a long
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=171.9s	171.9	 lead on their dog. Look at that. Look at the rate of reinforcement there. Rewarding duration.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=177.3s	177.3	 This person knows what they're doing right here. That dog in public by giving the treats
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=182.3s	182.3	 over and over like that. A lot of people think, oh, you're treating your dog too much. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=186.7s	186.7	 really, you're just communicating, hey, staying there is what equals rewards like this. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=191.1s	191.1	 this person is training like a pro trainer right here. And so he's going for a really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=194.4s	194.4	 nice long duration here. We can look for a release. I bet we can look for it. Let's see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=199.0s	199.0	 if he does it. There you go. And there's the release and there's the reward with the ball.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=202.3s	202.3	 Nice work. Is this a new series idea? Going in public and covertly watching people train
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=206.6s	206.6	 their dogs? The world cannot be coming to that. No. But you're going to elect to carry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=211.9s	211.9	 her rather than walk her. It's pretty busy here as we cross this crosswalk. If you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=216.1s	216.1	 a bigger dog, though, it's not always so easy to carry them. So we have to make sure that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=219.7s	219.7	 we're doing other things to manage them. Keeping them on a short leash, prioritize heel training,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=225.0s	225.0	 going out during off peak hours. That's why you probably don't put them in this situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=229.4s	229.4	 for their first city outing and you do some prep work and lay the groundwork. We have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=233.5s	233.5	 to cater our training approach to each individual dog. Lately in the comments of my YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=237.9s	237.9	 videos, I've noticed a lot of people will say something like, well, Zach, there's more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=241.5s	241.5	 than one way to teach a dog. So positive reinforcement isn't the only way. Okay, so much for not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=245.8s	245.8	 pulling, I guess. I think what a lot of people are failing to realize is that there are a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=249.4s	249.4	 thousand ways that you can not use aversions in your dog training. Being tolerant of pulling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=255.0s	255.0	 like this is pretty important when you're training them and taking them to new places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=259.6s	259.6	 And this is one of those unplanned variables that just presents itself. Got a barking dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=263.7s	263.7	 over here. Right there. Now there's another barking dog right there. Yeah, can you get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=273.0s	273.0	 her attention on you? Well done. Maybe we can focus on teaching Veronica to look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=279.3s	279.3	 us or pay attention while the dog is in the distance. There's a couple of things that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=282.7s	282.7	 Bri and I are considering. We don't want to continue to approach a barking dog. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=286.3s	286.3	 could just escalate both dogs and we don't want to create that precedent. Perfect. Essentially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=292.5s	292.5	 this is being done in the spirit of changing as few variables at a time as possible. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=297.3s	297.3	 we want to minimize the likelihood of her having a significant stress response, which
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=301.2s	301.2	 she will then correlate with being in places like this in the future. You can see how we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 keep those brain chemicals nice and controlled, approach the situation slowly and methodically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=311.4s	311.4	 that we are not creating more problems for ourselves in the future. Another common way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=315.2s	315.2	 to kind of test your dog and see are they receptive to learning new things is to ask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=320.1s	320.1	 them to sit. Can I get a sit? Easy to get her to sit anywhere else. Crowded busy street.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=329.1s	329.1	 Not so easy. Yes. It's almost like you can see her thinking, sit, sit. What's that? I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=335.3s	335.3	 think I know it. I think I know it. You can see how the environment affects her. It can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=338.6s	338.6	 be so valuable when you just let your dog think it out sometimes rather than saying,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=342.6s	342.6	 sit, sit. But dogs have their moments and when they're in new environments, there it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=346.6s	346.6	 is becomes harder. Now she's been warmed up. Now she understands. Training sessions like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=351.1s	351.1	 that are 30 seconds to two minutes at a time. A few minutes went by, Bre decided to do a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=355.4s	355.4	 little bit of training with Veronica, but started to become a bit frustrated because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=359.3s	359.3	 Veronica stopped taking treats. When you're training with positive reinforcement, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=364.8s	364.8	 have to have something to reinforce your dog with in order to make sure that you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=368.9s	368.9	 seal in that behavior. And sometimes that's inconvenient when your dog doesn't want the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=372.8s	372.8	 thing that you think should motivate them. Our objective was only to give her socialization
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=377.5s	377.5	 out here anyway. I'm fine to just move on from that. Or maybe I could try. Yes. Well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=383.5s	383.5	 I said she stopped taking treats and Zach challenged me and I think he's winning. Good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=389.9s	389.9	 You really have to like capitalize on those moments when your dog is like really, really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=394.3s	394.3	 interested in you, really paying attention. Yes. There we go. Yeah. Here we have things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=401.9s	401.9	 going on like construction. We started seeing a lot of big equipment and experience tells
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=408.4s	408.4	 me when you have big loud things that you want to approach those things cautiously.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=413.4s	413.4	 So this is kind of in our theme of always being aware of your environment so you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=417.4s	417.4	 understand how that's impacting your dog's mental and emotional well-being at that moment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=421.2s	421.2	 Being able to positively affect the dog's mental and emotional state when you're training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=424.8s	424.8	 them in a favorable way has unbelievable benefits when you are training a dog. Sounds like that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=430.9s	430.9	 do not go unnoticed by dogs. Just letting her observe the loud sound. You can see the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=436.7s	436.7	 construction equipment over there. Construction sounds are a great opportunity to expose your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=440.7s	440.7	 dog to loud sounds. Assuming that that doesn't overwhelm them. The key is to surround the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=446.0s	446.0	 abrasive sounds we're hearing of the construction and the jackhammer with good experiences.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=451.3s	451.3	 So in this case, doing some easy sits for treats is getting the job done. Look at that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=457.0s	457.0	 And there's construction in the background. As Bri continues to train Veronica, you can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=461.1s	461.1	 see her mood is uplifted. She's adapted. She's like, all right, I'm into the treats now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=465.5s	465.5	 We just gave it a little bit of time. She's jumping up. She's excited. We've got all this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=469.4s	469.4	 stuff going on. And that is where I want my dog mentally. Much better to have a happy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=474.4s	474.4	 jumping dog, even if you don't like the jumping than it is to have a calm dog who is borderline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=479.8s	479.8	 shut down because they're afraid to make too many erratic movements because we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=483.4s	483.4	 always tame down that jumping easily. I would elect to reward because the focus is on Brianna
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=489.3s	489.3	 and that's more important than anything. See, she's doing a lot better on blocking here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=494.3s	494.3	 Giving attention, offering attention a lot more. And here's another unplanned distraction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=499.3s	499.3	 We have a pigeon. It's a good training opportunity to see if we can call Veronica off that pigeon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=504.0s	504.0	 No tension on that leash. Just avoiding tension because I really want her to originate this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=508.7s	508.7	 behavior of listening to Bri from the inside outward. I want her to do it because she wants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=513.1s	513.1	 to and understand she needs to. And repeat. That is what dog training looks like. Does
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=518.7s	518.7	 this mean that the next time we come out, she's going to be perfect? No, it doesn't.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=522.5s	522.5	 But it does mean that we've made progress. And we know regular exercise is a big part
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=526.5s	526.5	 of our lifestyle with our dogs. I just want to launch her frisbee. And there's a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=531.4s	531.4	 extra nuance that goes on during these exercise sessions. Some days it might just be about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=536.3s	536.3	 playing frisbee, or it might be about doing sit or stay or come or heel. One of the best
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=542.1s	542.1	 times to teach your dog is during or right after vigorous exercise. I'm talking about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=547.1s	547.1	 when they were freshly depleted. By the way, that's a walkie talkie if you're wondering.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=552.3s	552.3	 And even simple things like teaching your dog to heel or staying near you. I'll have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=556.4s	556.4	 her do all of this and order to play with the frisbee for a moment. All right, ready?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=562.1s	562.1	 Lie down. Come around. Go. And that's what she does for. She's like, Oh, man, I'll do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=570.1s	570.1	 all that for one toss of the frisbee. But when you get your dog a little winded like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=574.6s	574.6	 this becomes much easier to get compliant behavior on things like heel. These outings
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=586.4s	586.4	 where we play frisbee with the dogs and really let them just let loose and play fetch are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=590.7s	590.7	 some of the most productive, unplanned training experiences that we have together. I can hear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=596.0s	596.0	 Bri calling me she needs help with frisbee training. Guess who's here? It brings me so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=600.7s	600.7	 much joy to know that this training session was caught on film. Oh my goodness. But this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=606.9s	606.9	 is her all time greatest breakthrough to date. Frisbee dog. She's a free. That was so good,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=615.4s	615.4	 Veronica. Yeah, good job. This is what a happy dog looks like. Tell me if you like videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=622.1s	622.1	 like this, where we actually show you our experiences of training our own dogs who don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=626.5s	626.5	 yet know the things we're training them. Follow us on Instagram, tik tok and Facebook. It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=631.0s	631.0	 is not just business as usual over there lately, we have a lot of big things going on as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=636.2s	636.2	 dog training community. I mean, we've been having conversations that need to happen in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=641.0s	641.0	 dog training over there. All of you can get a free extra box when you sign up at barkbox.com
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=645.3s	645.3	 slash dog training or super chewer.com slash dog training. I'll have a link below. We'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rp7niWsF2ug&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=77&pp=iAQB&t=649.6s	649.6	 see you guys in the next video.
