https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 Obviously we have a small number of sponsors for our YouTube channel and my goal is to keep that number small because we want to recommend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=6.8s	6.8	 What we see as the best of the best dog products to you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=10.5s	10.5	 What I like about pup box is that they effectively help you train your dog all year round
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=16.0s	16.0	 They'll send you a training themed box every month training themed. I cannot emphasize that enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=21.8s	21.8	 Yeah, we're talking about legitimate training advice. So these training cards come in every box
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=26.1s	26.1	 Incredibly packed with information on things you should be working on that particular month with your dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=31.0s	31.0	 They've put years and years into figuring out the training needs of dogs at certain ages
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=36.1s	36.1	 Can pup box tell me how to get her to stop biting me right now? Oh
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=39.5s	39.5	 Literally every month you get motivation in a box that helps you keep up with your dog's training because let's face it we all know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=46.8s	46.8	 Consistency is the name of the game. That's way easier said than done when you get a box in the mail that says hey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=51.8s	51.8	 Here's what to work on. Here's the supplies. Here's the toys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=54.8s	54.8	 Here's the treats that you need that kind of has a way of getting you to work with your dog a lot more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=58.6s	58.6	 You can get half off when you use our special link
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=61.2s	61.2	 Just go to pup box comm slash Zack and use discount code Zack and we appreciate it when you support our sponsors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=66.8s	66.8	 It helps us make more and better videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=69.6s	69.6	 This is an ultra sensitive topic that affects everyone in our community
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=73.8s	73.8	 I especially want to be respectful to people who train differently than I do throughout this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=79.3s	79.3	 I want to challenge us all myself included to feel a little bit uncomfortable in this conversation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=85.4s	85.4	 I really deep down feel like this is a discussion worth having we need to have it now as a dog trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=93.0s	93.0	 I am deeply concerned about the future of our industry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=96.5s	96.5	 Given what I'm seeing on YouTube tick tock and Instagram
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=99.7s	99.7	 My hope and expectations with this video is that if I outline my concerns and I show what my current understanding of the data is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=107.0s	107.0	 That maybe I can be shown where I've miscalculated or where I'm looking at this all wrong. I seriously mean this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=112.1s	112.1	 I genuinely want this to be a good faith discussion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=115.4s	115.4	 And I'm gonna be presenting some questions throughout this video that I have a genuine interest in hearing your response to I want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=122.3s	122.3	 Make sure that we all feel free to discuss this topic openly and in a way that is honest and without judgments on anyone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=129.8s	129.8	 So today we're going to go over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=132.3s	132.3	 Aversive dog training methods definitions are very important in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=136.4s	136.4	 Discussions like this. Thank you a type of behavior therapy designed to make patients give up an undesirable
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=143.1s	143.1	 Habits by causing them to associate it with an unpleasant effect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=147.7s	147.7	 There is a wide spectrum of using aversives in dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=151.9s	151.9	 It can be as simple as saying no you can't have that treat or on the more extreme end
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=156.2s	156.2	 Practically as we see it in dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=157.9s	157.9	 Sometimes it can be a more heavy-handed approach with a choke chain or a prong collar and swift harsh corrections being delivered at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=166.3s	166.3	 Optimal moments the purpose of aversives are to discourage future behavior by creating something unpleasant that a dog will associate with that thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=174.4s	174.4	 In their mind. We also really need to talk about the difference between balance training and compulsion training whether or not we should
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=182.2s	182.2	 incorporate punishments for more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=184.2s	184.2	 Extreme behaviors like aggression we're gonna examine why punishments are still used in dog training today and most importantly and this will be the theme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=191.7s	191.7	 of the video whether it's necessary to use aversive methods and if so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=197.4s	197.4	 When and what is the scientific data to back that claim up and this is a really passionate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=203.1s	203.1	 Topic for dog trainers because it really centers around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=206.1s	206.1	 What should we be telling the public about how to train their dog at home dog trainers watching this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=211.7s	211.7	 We're all dog trainers. We all got into this because we love dogs at no point
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=216.6s	216.6	 Am I ever questioning your love and dedication to making dogs lives better?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=221.2s	221.2	 I know that we all come at it from that perspective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=224.7s	224.7	 But we can still have a discussion on how to make each other better, right?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=227.8s	227.8	 And I'm hoping that you can help make me better the question I have is is it ever necessary?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=234.5s	234.5	 to use punishment particularly physical punishment as part of a behavior modification
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=240.4s	240.4	 Modification or training plan even with extreme cases like aggressive behavior and if so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=247.2s	247.2	 What is the scientific data to support that claim throughout this video?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=251.5s	251.5	 We're going to provide you with our perspective and the data that we think supports that perspective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=256.8s	256.8	 But I do want to remind everyone that when we're having discussions like this the burden of proof
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=262.7s	262.7	 Lies on the party that's making the claim in this case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=266.8s	266.8	 It would be dog trainers who are saying that sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=271.1s	271.1	 Aversive methods are necessary. I mean from where I sit to be honest with you guys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=276.2s	276.2	 I think we are in a dog training Renaissance at the moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=279.6s	279.6	 I mean dogs are learning to talk with buttons right now with every innovative study that we see about this topic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=285.8s	285.8	 It's like oh wow dogs are even smarter than most of us guessed before so in general dog behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=292.7s	292.7	 Science is relatively new but we're finally starting to see a lot of data come in in recent years right now. There is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=300.7s	300.7	 What can only be described as a major disconnect with how the scientific community looks at animal behavior and dog behavior and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=310.1s	310.1	 What dog trainers are teaching the public about dog behavior?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=314.4s	314.4	 And so the general public has a certain perception of how dogs should be trained broadly speaking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=320.3s	320.3	 I think we agree there's a couple of ways that people attempt to train their dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=324.4s	324.4	 They'll use treats to let them know when they've done something right and they might use corrections or punishments to communicate to the dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=330.9s	330.9	 You've done something that I don't like and to be clear dog trainers refer to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=335.0s	335.0	 Corrections like this even subtle ones like taking a treat away from a dog when you're encouraging them to sit and they don't do it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=341.4s	341.4	 We refer to those things as punishments things that are viewed as unpleasant to the dog and as we discussed before
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=346.8s	346.8	 Wide variance in the use of various types of punishment in dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=351.2s	351.2	 I do want to be clear that all punishments are not equally impactful on a dog saying you can't have a piece of chicken to a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=359.1s	359.1	 probably isn't viewed as aversive to a dog as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=363.1s	363.1	 Using an electric collar in a situation that causes them discomfort a lot of people if not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=368.8s	368.8	 Most people are going to use a combination of rewards and punishments in their training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=373.9s	373.9	 Virtually all dog trainers agree that rewards are fantastic and productive for dog training regardless of their disciplines
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=380.3s	380.3	 In other words positive reinforcement dog training amongst virtually all dog trainers is the equivalent of green
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=387.7s	387.7	 Vegetables are good for you in learning theory the principles that govern how all animals learn punishments and aversion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=395.7s	395.7	 Are actually never required. There is no known instance in the animal kingdom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=401.6s	401.6	 Where using physical punishment is required to create new behavior or to stop?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=408.9s	408.9	 unwanted behavior and so if one is making the claim that sometimes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=414.0s	414.0	 Tools like choke chains prong collars and electric collars are necessary to deliver aversion to a dog to discourage future behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=422.9s	422.9	 Then they would be responsible for uncovering new science now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=426.5s	426.5	 Look that is not the same as saying that aversion isn't sometimes necessary in a dog's life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=432.1s	432.1	 The question to me really centers around the intentional use of aversives, but let me give you an example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=438.2s	438.2	 Let's say I have two dogs in my company. They're getting into a fight and I have to break up a fight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=442.8s	442.8	 I may have to break up the fight by grabbing them and separating the dogs in a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=447.8s	447.8	 Assertive way that the dogs could view as unpleasant, but it's necessary in that moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=452.8s	452.8	 That's not what I'm talking about, but never would a dog trainer I hope not anyway assume
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=458.4s	458.4	 Oh, that's how I train a dog not to fight and I'm not saying they do say that I'm trying to explain that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=464.4s	464.4	 It really comes down to using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=466.9s	466.9	 Intentional aversives as part of a behavior modification plan to get a dog to behave as we wish them to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=473.6s	473.6	 Or as a training program is that distinction clear if a dog fight breaks out?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=478.1s	478.1	 I got to break up the dog fight by virtually any means necessary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=481.0s	481.0	 Do I think that that is a wise training approach to resolve the aggressive issue long-term?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=486.0s	486.0	 No, I do not what responsible trainers do whether they use aversives or not in their dog training is they take a step back?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=493.2s	493.2	 They develop a plan of how to address this issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=496.6s	496.6	 ideally that plan is should be a medium to long-term goal because it's a complex issue and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=502.4s	502.4	 Give their client the appropriate advice about how to systematically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=506.1s	506.1	 Desensitize how to counter condition and how to get that dog on the path. This actually isn't even controversial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=511.9s	511.9	 But virtually all behavior science where physical punishment is used
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=517.0s	517.0	 Virtually always concludes that there are long-term welfare concerns, even though scientifically speaking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=523.3s	523.3	 There is no known instance where aversive methods are required
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=528.2s	528.2	 We still see punishments implemented frequently throughout the dog training community to resolve deeply complex issues
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=535.8s	535.8	 Now to the studies in dog training that are often reference were both done in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=541.2s	541.2	 2017 and they're both comprehensive reviews studies of studies so to speak and the purpose of these studies was to try to get an overall
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=548.6s	548.6	 consensus as to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=550.3s	550.3	 Really how your dogs at home should be trained and advised by professional dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=555.1s	555.1	 But the results of both of these compilations of studies suggests that aversive methods are correlated with stress behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=561.8s	561.8	 Elevated cortisol levels and this is an important one fear and aggression within dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=567.0s	567.0	 Now one of these studies reviewed 17 different scientific papers that compared reward based
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=572.9s	572.9	 Training methods to training methods that incorporated punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=575.9s	575.9	 There were five surveys that compared a variety of different training methods and they found that people who incorporate aversive techniques in their training are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=583.0s	583.0	 More likely to report fear and aggression or behavior problems
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=586.4s	586.4	 Those surveys were met with skepticism by some and we'll talk about that in a moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=590.9s	590.9	 The review also looked at three other studies that directly observed dogs and those studies also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=596.7s	596.7	 Found that using aversive methods might likely affect canine welfare and negatively impact behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=604.0s	604.0	 Researchers also attempted to look at dog to dog aggression by including a questionnaire study that found that dogs who were trained using
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=610.6s	610.6	 Aversive techniques were more likely to be the perpetrator in dog to dog interactions now in the case of this study this included
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=617.7s	617.7	 Some people using more extreme types of punishments like hitting them or shaking them which most modern dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=625.1s	625.1	 Balanced or positive alike don't agree with the study also took a look at the efficacy of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=631.3s	631.3	 Bar collars shot collars and electric fences
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=634.2s	634.2	 Results suggest that using those tools might be painful or frightening to some dogs as well as having negative effects between a dog and their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=641.0s	641.0	 Handler their overall welfare and their training performance this study of studies also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=646.7s	646.7	 Concluded that reward based methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=649.0s	649.0	 Don't carry with them the same long-term welfare concerns and might actually be more effective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=654.2s	654.2	 But the question isn't is it more effective to use one method or the other the question is is it necessary to use?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=661.6s	661.6	 Aversives in dog training today. I have zero desire to cherry-pick data that supports my perspective
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=668.9s	668.9	 Instead my perspective is informed by the scientific data that I'm aware of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=673.6s	673.6	 Criticisms of these studies are certainly valid, but it's not about any one study in and of itself rather
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=679.8s	679.8	 It's the body of science that should inform our opinion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=683.0s	683.0	 Obviously further research is always needed in all aspects of science with people who don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=689.0s	689.0	 Necessarily agree or like the findings of these studies one thing that I've noticed is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=693.6s	693.6	 Some will be quick to toss out the validity of the studies because for example
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=699.0s	699.0	 They included a lot of survey studies now you might remember in a recent video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=703.7s	703.7	 We actually talked about what went into a proper survey study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=707.7s	707.7	 It isn't as though it's just some people sitting in a room who come up with some random questions a good survey study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=714.2s	714.2	 Has been shown to deliver accurate data and weed out the noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=718.3s	718.3	 Sometimes people like to think that it's better to have a trained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=721.9s	721.9	 Professional come in and observe a pet dog if that's what's being studied because they're gonna know what to look for and the right data
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=728.2s	728.2	 To gather but if you think about that there are some issues with that approach as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=732.3s	732.3	 How many different contexts can a trained professional?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=735.6s	735.6	 Evaluate a dog in in a short period of time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=738.4s	738.4	 What if the dog is having an off day what if being observed in and of itself causes the dog to behave differently?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=743.4s	743.4	 So in many cases
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=745.6s	745.6	 Guardians giving information about their own dogs is the most accurate way to gather necessary information
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=752.4s	752.4	 Depending on what's being studied
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=753.8s	753.8	 Of course the people who typically know their dogs best are the guardians of those pets and if we can ask the questions in a way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=760.1s	760.1	 That regular people can answer and we found a scientific way to weed out much of the noise
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=765.8s	765.8	 That can be a wealth of data as it relates to dog behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=769.6s	769.6	 So it's not necessarily valid to say oh survey studies too much room for error
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=774.8s	774.8	 You didn't invent that the scientists thought of that already these studies are published in scientific peer-reviewed journals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=781.5s	781.5	 I say that to let you know that they have undergone and conformed to the scientific method to the best of our ability
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=787.2s	787.2	 What about since 2017? I mean that was five years ago
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=790.0s	790.0	 Well more and more findings keep coming out studies done in 2018 2019 2020 2021 and 2022
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=797.6s	797.6	 Today continue to support that aversive approaches in dog training have with them long-term
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=804.2s	804.2	 Welfare concerns and I will tell you this right now on the record if we start getting a large body of science that starts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=810.2s	810.2	 To come in that suggests that these physical corrections that I'm skeptical of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=814.1s	814.1	 Right now are necessary or that they contribute to a dog's long-term well-being or that they're more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=821.8s	821.8	 Effective then I will do a 180 on this like that and again
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=825.7s	825.7	 I'm not trying to be difficult on this at all right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=828.6s	828.6	 But to suggest that aversives are necessary as part of a behavior modification plan or a training plan is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=835.1s	835.1	 At odds with what science tells us being on the other side of science on this issue is a scary place to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=841.9s	841.9	 When we're in a scientific profession, this is a complex issue amongst dog trainer, so there's more to cover
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=846.9s	846.9	 Let's continue if you're with me so far. I can hear many of you saying Zack
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=851.4s	851.4	 That's great positive reinforcement is fine, but it's not appropriate for all dogs in all situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=857.2s	857.2	 Some dogs need those physical corrections
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=860.9s	860.9	 Particularly those who have issues of aggressive behavior for example if a dog is so scared of humans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=866.5s	866.5	 They might lash out and bite them and so maybe it becomes easier to justify the use of these tools because a dog biting humans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=873.5s	873.5	 ends badly for a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=875.8s	875.8	 Aggression and huge part in dog training does stem from fear and anxiety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=880.9s	880.9	 There are many known ways to address fear and anxiety that do not involve the use of aversive punishments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=888.4s	888.4	 This is not controversial in the field of animal behavior to the contrary. It's well established
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=894.4s	894.4	 Keep in mind though that aggressive behavior can also stem from instinct fear stress hormonal changes social dynamics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=902.0s	902.0	 Genetics and environmental factors, of course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=904.5s	904.5	 It is shown time and time again throughout the animal kingdom including dogs and humans that punishing aggressive behavior as a strategy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=912.2s	912.2	 To eliminate it long term is not only unnecessary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=915.9s	915.9	 But extremely likely to be counterproductive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=919.2s	919.2	 What is the scientific data on dog aggression?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=923.2s	923.2	 1-2017 study showed successful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=925.8s	925.8	 Rehabilitation of dogs who had resource guarding issues and for that they use clicker training alone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=930.7s	930.7	 Which is generally considered to be exclusively positive reinforcing now the sample size was very small on this study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=936.9s	936.9	 But the results were still clear at least with these dogs every single dog in the study showed improvement and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=943.4s	943.4	 Aversive punishment was not used at any point in the study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=946.7s	946.7	 So there's a study that shows you that at least in this case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=950.3s	950.3	 It was not necessary to use aversion to get the dogs to stop guarding resources another recent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=956.5s	956.5	 2022
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=957.7s	957.7	 study surveyed people in the UK who were seeking help with their dogs and hired canine professionals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=964.3s	964.3	 Some of them were positive some of them may use mixed methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=967.5s	967.5	 But the bottom line is even though aggression was the number one reason people were likely to hire one of these trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=974.5s	974.5	 They didn't perceive any difference between those who used more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=978.6s	978.6	 Aversive methods versus those who use methods that did not include aversion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=983.9s	983.9	 So bottom line is that they were perceived as equally effective to people seeking out dog training in the UK
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=990.9s	990.9	 So even here where we see aversives, okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=993.8s	993.8	 They're just as good as positive reinforcement they work, but here's the thing though if all things are equal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=999.7s	999.7	 Why would we add punishment if it's not necessary?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1002.3s	1002.3	 So again, none of these studies are showing us where using aversive methods are necessary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1007.7s	1007.7	 This is a great study. Also a 2021 study really examined how dogs behave in a veterinary setting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1015.2s	1015.2	 Dogs are probably more likely to behave aggressively in that setting where pain is sometimes unavoidable. They're getting shots
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1021.8s	1021.8	 Maybe they need to be restrained for one reason or another they used positive reinforcement and time and patience
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1027.3s	1027.3	 They were able to correlate a reduction in aggressive behaviors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1030.6s	1030.6	 They did that by using easy managing techniques and positive reinforcement another 21 study looked into the effectiveness of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1038.5s	1038.5	 Various techniques for the treatment of canine aggression and found that positive methods tended to be the most consistent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1045.0s	1045.0	 Beneficial technique even in the case of aggressive behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1048.8s	1048.8	 This isn't even new BF Skinner the person who coined the quadrants positive reinforcement negative reinforcement positive punishment negative punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1057.1s	1057.1	 Understood that punishment wasn't ideal and noticed considerable side effects BF Skinner himself
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1063.1s	1063.1	 noticed that punishment could lead to increased aggression decreased motivation lower self-esteem and even
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1069.3s	1069.3	 Decreased compliance when using these physical punishments and his experiments the case to use a lot of these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1075.8s	1075.8	 Controversial methods in dog training is that there are four quadrants we should use all of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1080.6s	1080.6	 But this probably isn't the optimal interpretation of the four quadrants which brings us to our next section
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1086.6s	1086.6	 Let's talk about balanced training. I hate labels
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1090.6s	1090.6	 Especially as they relate to other humans and dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1093.1s	1093.1	 But there are a couple of labels that we can't deny are pretty relevant to this situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1098.2s	1098.2	 Broadly speaking there are two main types of dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1100.8s	1100.8	 There are those trainers who do not intentionally use aversives as part of their behavior modification or training plan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1106.6s	1106.6	 And then there are those trainers who will consider the use of using one of the three tools
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1112.2s	1112.2	 We've talked about choke chains prong collars
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1114.4s	1114.4	 Electric collars or some other potentially aversive method as part of their approach if they deem it necessary for that particular dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1121.8s	1121.8	 So the first type of trainer we talked about is generally considered force-free
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1125.8s	1125.8	 That doesn't mean though that force-free trainers never use aversives
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1130.0s	1130.0	 They're just not ever a part of a formal training plan for a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1133.8s	1133.8	 But in general the goal is to not have to rely on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1137.2s	1137.2	 Aversives at all and design a training plan that takes that into account
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1140.8s	1140.8	 And then of course the second type is the type of trainer who will keep on the table and consider the use of aversive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1147.8s	1147.8	 Methods when training dogs trainers like this are often considered balanced dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1152.9s	1152.9	 The term balanced is supposed to refer to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1155.2s	1155.2	 Skinner's four quadrants and how they should all be considered and used when training a dog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1160.0s	1160.0	 And it sounds so sensible, especially since it's drawn for equal parts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1164.3s	1164.3	 So they'll use positive reinforcement. Sometimes they'll use punishment negative or positive punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1168.8s	1168.8	 We can get into all that another time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1170.1s	1170.1	 They may consider the use of choke prong or electric collars at some point in their training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1174.2s	1174.2	 And if we're all being honest all of those tools are specifically engineered to be aversive to dogs when used as directed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1180.8s	1180.8	 It some people will take me to task on that and I don't understand if I am wrong about that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1186.0s	1186.0	 Please tell me why that's not the case. So amongst trainers who call themselves balanced the spectrum is quite wide
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1191.7s	1191.7	 There are trainers who will just you know default from day one to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1196.9s	1196.9	 Using tools on dogs like choke prong electric collars
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1199.9s	1199.9	 There are other trainers who will use it once every two years
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1202.7s	1202.7	 the thing that the trainers have in common is that they refer to themselves as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1207.5s	1207.5	 balanced however
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1209.5s	1209.5	 Within the balanced dog training community
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1211.5s	1211.5	 You have the two sets of what many of us would call compulsion trainers over here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1216.9s	1216.9	 And then those who are going to use tools far more reluctantly over here balanced dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1222.0s	1222.0	 This is why dog training methods are highly confusing to the public it would seem so compulsion trainers are typically those really heavy-handed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1228.7s	1228.7	 Dog trainers that you'll see very common on social media
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1231.4s	1231.4	 You'll often see them just very early on in the training process put one of the tools
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1236.6s	1236.6	 We've talked about earlier on the dog and just more or less default to that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1240.7s	1240.7	 It's not like on the third fourth fifth lesson with these guys and very often
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1245.5s	1245.5	 They'll get these dogs to submit like that. We need to discuss why that is highly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1251.2s	1251.2	 problematic and truthfully most positive and balanced dog trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1255.6s	1255.6	 We were all kind of seeing the same thing that compulsion trainers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1260.1s	1260.1	 Definitely refer to themselves as balanced a huge number of the time and there's a lot of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1266.4s	1266.4	 compulsion under the umbrella of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1268.4s	1268.4	 So-called balanced training and there is a divide in the ethics there. I feel like the term balanced has been so tarnished
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1276.4s	1276.4	 I mean really if you're using positive reinforcement 98% of the time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1281.2s	1281.2	 You're practically there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1282.8s	1282.8	 Maybe kick the ladder out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1284.2s	1284.2	 See if you can do it without the tools because I think you can and I think you can do it more often than you think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1289.1s	1289.1	 You can do you know where I think the disconnect lies like really if I could just pinpoint and put my finger on the issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1296.6s	1296.6	 It's this as we established earlier science is telling us that all behaviors can be modified or trained without the use of aversive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1304.2s	1304.2	 So far we've found no exceptions to that with any animal humans included and I think that's why we get so emotional about this issue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1311.8s	1311.8	 sometimes our peers and our friends and dog training often are telling us that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1317.1s	1317.1	 Actually, there are exceptions to learning theory in dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1321.0s	1321.0	 But the science doesn't support that if I've missed something bring it to my attention because I just want to be a better dog trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1326.8s	1326.8	 So the observation we continue to make is that the more someone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1330.6s	1330.6	 Approaches this craft in good faith makes an effort to learn what?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1334.6s	1334.6	 Collectively we all know the less likely they are to use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1338.5s	1338.5	 Aversives in their training and there's evidence to support this if you're a certified dog trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1342.8s	1342.8	 You're less likely to use punishments in your training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1345.1s	1345.1	 Is it that aversives are sometimes necessary even though that's inconsistent with scientific theory?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1351.1s	1351.1	 Or is it that at some point in the training process?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1355.2s	1355.2	 We as dog trainers encounter something that becomes challenging to us and we resort to using punishment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1362.2s	1362.2	 Because we don't know what to do next that is okay. That is I've been there many times
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1367.7s	1367.7	 So I would not cast judgment on any dog trainer in that situation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1372.1s	1372.1	 One thing I like to do is to research the topic in more depth talk to trainers that I really trust on the matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1377.9s	1377.9	 So I'm not shaming anyone who doesn't know what to do in challenging situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1382.1s	1382.1	 I want to get at even a deeper question here in spite of what we know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1388.0s	1388.0	 Scientifically, why are aversives in dog training as a whole still so common?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1393.8s	1393.8	 We are all a product of our system. You know what I'm saying is we're all product of our system
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1398.3s	1398.3	 So if we are our environment is encouraging us to behave a certain way in relation to dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1403.4s	1403.4	 We're more likely to do that and then you know how environmental culture goes. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1410.2s	1410.2	 Mean it's a mess. I mean, it's so it's very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1415.2s	1415.2	 Multifaceted so with the mounting welfare concerns that we're seeing in the scientific community
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1419.6s	1419.6	 Why is there still such a disconnect between what science is telling us and what's being practiced in the field now?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1425.3s	1425.3	 We're getting into like what I see as the real stuff here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1431.3s	1431.3	 One 2018 study looked at this very question and tried to actually identify some of these barriers that were preventing people from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1439.4s	1439.4	 Updating their dog training knowledge. Dr. Zazie Todd wrote this study to try to illustrate the wide range of factors that might influence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1446.2s	1446.2	 People's use or non use of humane dog training methods
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1449.2s	1449.2	 There's a lot of things at play here including a person's personality their individual beliefs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1454.2s	1454.2	 Their education and their knowledge of dog training their awareness of professional bodies position statements in their industry
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1460.3s	1460.3	 Perceived social pressure from their family and friends and peers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1464.4s	1464.4	 The situation is compounded by the lack of certification standards for dog trainers and the widespread
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1470.4s	1470.4	 availability of poor quality as well as high quality dog training advice plus the promotion of aversive training techniques by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1477.4s	1477.4	 Local trainers as well as celebrity trainers because there's a divide amongst us dog trainers in terms of training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1483.3s	1483.3	 Philosophies the public is left with this idea that there is not consensus with how we should approach dog training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1490.2s	1490.2	 Even though there actually is a scientific consensus. Dr. Todd also pointed out that dog training is a skilled activity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1497.1s	1497.1	 People might give up on positive reinforcement if they don't feel like they're making enough progress and that causes discouragement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1503.6s	1503.6	 It seems that one of the things we've got to overcome is people trusting their instincts to train their dogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1509.8s	1509.8	 I can understand that right now. Everyone's gonna be like, oh, let me go brush up on the latest science of dog training because I got a new puppy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1515.1s	1515.1	 I get it. There was a really interesting survey study in Italy that asked people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1521.6s	1521.6	 How where they got their dog training information from right and 55% of people listed myself as their main source
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1528.1s	1528.1	 I am not even gonna criticize that how many things do I do in my day-to-day life that I don't get a professional?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1534.3s	1534.3	 I don't have a personal trainer and I try to work out that's probably a bad idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1538.1s	1538.1	 So out of that 55% who answered myself one of the numbers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1543.2s	1543.2	 42% said that their education was influenced by the internet TV or a book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1547.5s	1547.5	 I think everyone can agree that there's a ton of misinformation as it relates to training dogs in the public eye and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1553.8s	1553.8	 13% said that they got their dog training knowledge instinctively sometimes our instincts aren't aren't as good as science
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1560.1s	1560.1	 That's all I'm saying in 2017
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1562.5s	1562.5	 There was a study that looked at popular dog training books in the US UK and New Zealand
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1567.3s	1567.3	 It found a wide variety of training techniques recommended from straight-up positive reinforcement in some cases to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1574.0s	1574.0	 The extremes of how hard a dog should be hit and plus there was demonstrably untrue information as well as metaphysical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1581.2s	1581.2	 Information in these books again with all of this inconsistent information. It's easy to see why the public remains confused
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1587.7s	1587.7	 I don't think any professional dog trainer wants to be presenting outdated information to their customers to the public or anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1595.2s	1595.2	 And I don't think any of them intentionally do so an article in Society and Animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1599.4s	1599.4	 Looked at how dogs are viewed in dog training culture in Finland
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1603.2s	1603.2	 This was interesting and so this study found a difference between what they called dog centered and human centered
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1610.2s	1610.2	 Dog training approaches
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1611.6s	1611.6	 So if you are a dog centered trainer that meant that you approach dog training as more of an equal partnership
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1617.9s	1617.9	 Where you shared power you allow the dog to make mistakes with the aim of reinforcing when they do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1623.3s	1623.3	 What you like and then build from there in contrast to that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1627.0s	1627.0	 Human centered dog trainers viewed the relationship not so much as a partnership but more hierarchical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1633.0s	1633.0	 So this discrepancy of viewing the training relationship as more of a partnership or more of a one-sided
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1639.9s	1639.9	 Relationship seems to really be at the root of this divide around the world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1644.5s	1644.5	 I'm speaking very broadly here and there will be exceptions to this many trainers who implement aversives in their training expect a dog to obey a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1652.5s	1652.5	 command immediately and if the dog doesn't comply then they're either punished until they do the behavior or the handler may
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1659.7s	1659.7	 physically assist them in making the behavior happen in some way and so dogs who are being trained with positive reinforcement are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1666.9s	1666.9	 Encouraged to try things on their own since we want them to think for themselves mistakes just aren't punished
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1672.1s	1672.1	 So when you look at both of these approaches look how the power dynamic is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1676.5s	1676.5	 Distributed in one case you have a partnership and another case you have I'm a human the dog is here to serve me type attitude a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1684.5s	1684.5	 Positive reinforcement approach actually gives some power to the dog as they brainstorm and mistakes are tolerated and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1692.1s	1692.1	 Successes are rewarded. It's very powerful a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1695.5s	1695.5	 2017 study pointed out that positive reinforcement training does demand more from a trainer though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1700.7s	1700.7	 That's because you have to really pay a lot of attention to a dog's body language and how they're behaving in a certain context
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1706.2s	1706.2	 Their emotional state and what it really takes to set up that individual dog to succeed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1710.5s	1710.5	 I can see how that's perceived as a barrier because I mean there is a little more knowledge required to kind of manage those situations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1716.4s	1716.4	 It's not as basic as you know, you don't listen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1718.5s	1718.5	 I'm going to make you listen or and again not saying all trainers who use aversives train that way necessarily
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1725.2s	1725.2	 Stay focused
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1726.1s	1726.1	 I think we all agree that every professional dog trainer needs to take agency in their craft and in the dogs that they work with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1732.5s	1732.5	 I don't think that we can deny the cultural impacts that bleed into dog training how it is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1738.7s	1738.7	 representative of how society views certain roles and that might be affecting people's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1744.7s	1744.7	 Adoption of using positive reinforcement based methods in their training
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1748.3s	1748.3	 I think we would be wise to be aware of cultural systemic issues that affect our profession as well
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1753.8s	1753.8	 We're not done yet. Remember the focus of this video is when is it ever necessary to use?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1760.2s	1760.2	 Aversives as part of a behavior modification or training plan with dogs in some areas studies are slim
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1767.3s	1767.3	 Especially as it relates to dogs. We actually have a strong precedent of how punishment affects human behavior in our culture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1775.6s	1775.6	 Already and that is well studied
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1778.2s	1778.2	 We also have the understanding that mammals of all kinds have been shown to learn and process emotions in similar ways in light of that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1785.4s	1785.4	 The position statement of the American Psychological Association on corporal punishment in children is pretty clear
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1791.4s	1791.4	 scientific evidence demonstrates that physical discipline of children by parents and other caregivers can harm children's mental health and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1799.9s	1799.9	 Possibly increase their propensity toward aggressive behavior
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1804.2s	1804.2	 Research indicates that physical discipline is not effective in achieving a parent's long-term goals of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1810.3s	1810.3	 decreasing aggressive and defiant behavior in children or a promoting regulated and socially competent behavior in children
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1817.9s	1817.9	 The research on the adverse outcomes associated with physical discipline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1822.3s	1822.3	 Indicates that any perceived short-term benefits of physical discipline do not outweigh the detriments of this form of discipline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1831.0s	1831.0	 now I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1832.9s	1832.9	 mean
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1834.5s	1834.5	 Take it. I understand that's talking about humans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1837.1s	1837.1	 The parallels are pretty striking one study found ten negative outcomes for corporal punishment in children
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1845.0s	1845.0	 but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1846.0s	1846.0	 one benefit one benefit was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1849.6s	1849.6	 immediate compliance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1851.4s	1851.4	 Isn't this what we often see when aversives are used in training immediate compliance?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1857.6s	1857.6	 We'll see a wild and crazy dog immediately stop doing something after some firm corrections and that can be highly persuasive to the public
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1865.1s	1865.1	 They just want a well-behaved dog and they want one as soon as possible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1868.4s	1868.4	 But you know what else we're seeing is the likelihood of up to ten other potential
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1873.0s	1873.0	 Outcomes as a result of that compulsion the negative outcomes of punishment in children included aggression
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1878.6s	1878.6	 Reduced mental health increased criminal or antisocial behavior and a reduced quality of relationship with the parents
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1884.8s	1884.8	 I don't think it's totally wrong to draw this parallel at all because of how closely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1889.5s	1889.5	 Dogs and people actually are people like to point out how different they are and they are very different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1894.5s	1894.5	 We are completely different species
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1895.8s	1895.8	 But I will remind you that learning theory doesn't just apply to one animal at a time or one kind of animal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1902.3s	1902.3	 It applies to all animals humans and dogs included. These are very similar to the dog training results that we talked about earlier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1909.6s	1909.6	 I mean some of us might remember a time when corporal punishment in schools and at home was a hotly debated topic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1914.5s	1914.5	 in society, but these days and tell me if you agree with this we've seen a dramatic shift to positive reinforcement in parenting culture
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1922.4s	1922.4	 And that's because we understand that it's been shown to be more effective and that those side effects are very real and not worth the risks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1929.6s	1929.6	 Okay
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1930.0s	1930.0	 If we are collectively able to acknowledge that there's no known instance where physical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1935.3s	1935.3	 Aversion is necessary in order to modify behavior or teach new behavior in humans or any other animal. What justification do we as professionals have?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1944.3s	1944.3	 Making it part of a regular training regimen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1947.6s	1947.6	 That is the question even if you think that the science is way too flawed in the dog field way too flawed in learning theory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1954.5s	1954.5	 The burden of proof to support your case lies with the person making the claim in this case
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1960.9s	1960.9	 The person who says that aversives are necessary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1965.5s	1965.5	 Sometimes in dog training and if one feels that way they must then show the scientific data that supports that hypothesis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1974.0s	1974.0	 And I'm not trying to be nitpicky here, but remember dog training by its very nature is a scientific profession
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1980.1s	1980.1	 We are the ones trusted with getting living beings to behave differently than they do right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1986.1s	1986.1	 I'm dying to get your feedback on this as a professional trainer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1989.0s	1989.0	 I'm really curious to see what your perspective is. I encourage you guys to follow us on social
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1994.9s	1994.9	 We have freedom to get into these topics even more so sometimes on tik-tok and Instagram
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=1999.7s	1999.7	 If you got a new puppy get him a pup box use my special link to get half off pup box calm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=2004.6s	2004.6	 Zach will have that and the coupon code in the description below. So we're working on lots of exciting things still behind the scenes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWM_gHMQaUQ&list=UUZzFRKsgVMhGTxffpzgTJlQ&index=82&pp=iAQB&t=2010.8s	2010.8	 Thanks for being patient with us and we'll see you guys in the next video
